 [In a cosmopolitan voice] "Orphoos with his loot!" That his loot, Mr Vane? Why didn't he pinch something more precious? Has this high-brow curtain-raiser of yours got any "pep" in it? 
 I'd thought of "Pop goes the Weasel" with little Miggs. We kind of want a cock-tail before "Louisa loses," Mr Vane. 
 This your lighting? It's a bit on the spiritool side. I've left my glass. Guess I'll sit in the front row. Ha'f a minute. Who plays this Orphoos? 
 Has he got punch? 
 Who are the others? 
 H'm! Names don't draw. 
 Pretty? 
 Arty? 
 We-ell, if it's got punch and go, that'll be enough for me. Let's get to it! [He extinguishes his cigar and descends the steps and sits in  the centre of the front row of the stalls.] 
 The  curtain goes down.] [A woman's voice is heard singing very beautifully Sullivan's  song: "Orpheus with his lute, with his lute made trees and the  mountain tops that freeze'." etc.] 
 Some voice! The curtain rises. In the armchair the PROFESSOR is yawning,  tall, thin, abstracted, and slightly grizzled in the hair. He  has a pad of paper over his knee, ink on the stool to his right  and the Encyclopedia volume on the stand to his left-barricaded  in fact by the article he is writing. He is reading a page over  to himself, but the words are drowned in the sound of the song  his WIFE is singing in the next room, partly screened off by the  curtain. She finishes, and stops. His voice can then be heard  conning the words of his article. 
 What's that girl's name? 
 Aha! [The Stage is lighted up again. Moonlight bright on the  orchard; the room in darkness where the PROFESSOR'S figure is  just visible sleeping in the chair, and screwed a little more  round towards the window. From behind the mossy boulder a  faun-like figure uncurls itself and peeps over with ears  standing up and elbows leaning on the stone, playing a rustic  pipe; and there are seen two rabbits and a fox sitting up and  listening. A shiver of wind passes, blowing petals from the  apple-trees.] [The FAUN darts his head towards where, from Right, comes slowly  the figure of a Greek youth, holding a lute or lyre which his  fingers strike, lifting out little wandering strains as of wind  whinnying in funnels and odd corners. The FAUN darts down  behind the stone, and the youth stands by the boulder playing  his lute. Slowly while he plays the whitened trunk of an  apple-tree is seen, to dissolve into the body of a girl with  bare arms and feet, her dark hair unbound, and the face of the  PROFESSOR'S 
 Gee! The Stage is lighted up again, as in the opening scene. The  PROFESSOR is seen in his chair, with spilt sheets of paper round  him, waking from a dream. He shakes himself, pinches his leg,  stares heavily round into the moonlight, rises. 
 Fine! Fine! 
 I'd like to meet Miss Hellgrove. [She comes forward eagerly and timidly. He grasps her hand] Miss Hellgrove, I want to say I thought that fine--fine. [Her evident emotion and pleasure warm him so that he increases his grasp and commendation] Fine. It quite got my soft spots. Emotional. Fine! MISS H. Oh! Mr Frust; it means so much to me. Thank you! 
 [A little balder in the eye, and losing warmth] Er--fine! [His eye wanders] Where's Mr Flatway? 
 Mr Fleetway, I want to say I thought your Orphoos very remarkable. Fine. 
 [A little balder in the eye] There wasn't much to it, but what there was was fine. Mr Toone. [FLEETWAY melts out and TOONE is precipitated.] Mr Toone, I was very pleased with your Professor--quite a character-study. [TOONE bows and murmurs] Yes, sir! I thought it fine. [His eye grows bald] Who plays the goat? 
 MISSHOPKins, I guess your fawn was fine. 
 [His eye growing bald] Mr Foreson, I thought the way you fixed that tree was very cunning; I certainly did. Got a match? [He takes a match from FORESON, and lighting a very long cigar,  walks up Stage through the French windows followed by FORESON,  and examines the apple-tree.] [The two Actors depart, but Miss HELLGROVE runs from where she  has been lingering, by the curtain, to VANE, Stage Right.] MISS H. Oh! Mr Vane--do you think? He seemed quite--Oh! Mr Vane [ecstatically] If only - 
 Mr Vane, we got little Miggs on contract? 
 Well, I liked that little pocket piece fine. But I'm blamed if I know what it's all about. 
 Ye-ep. [Meditatively] Little Miggs'd be fine in "Pop goes the Weasel." 
 Get him on the 'phone, and put it into rehearsal right now. 
 Guess we can't take liberties with our public, Mr Vane. They want pep. 
 Give her the part of the 'tweeny in "Pop goes". 
 We-ell! I certainly thought she was fine. Now, you 'phone up Miggs, and get right along with it. I've only one rule, sir! Give the Public what it wants; and what the Public wants is punch and go. They've got no use for Beauty, Allegory, all that high-brow racket. I know 'em as I know my hand. [During this speech MISS HELLGROVE is seen listening by the  French window, in distress, unnoticed by either of them.] 
 Now, see here, Mr Blewitt Vane, is this my theatre? I tell you, I can't afford luxuries. 
 [With unmoved finality] Mr Vane, I judge I'm not the average man. Before "Louisa Loses" the Public'll want a stimulant. "Pop goes the Weasel" will suit us fine. So--get right along with it. I'll go get some lunch. [As he vanishes into the wings, Left, MISS HELLGROVE covers her  face with her hands. A little sob escaping her attracts VANE'S  attention. He takes a step towards her, but she flies.] 
