 "Orpheus symbolized the voice of Beauty, the call of life, luring us mortals with his song back from the graves we dig for ourselves. Probably the ancients realized this neither more nor less than we moderns. Mankind has not changed. The civilized being still hides the faun and the dryad within its broadcloth and its silk. And yet"--
 Go on, my dear! It helps the atmosphere. 
 
 
 Umm? Aha! What? Yes; I heard. I'm sorry. I get absorbed. 
 My dear, your song was helping me like anything to get the mood. This paper is the very deuce--to balance between the historical and the natural. 
 Umm! Wish I thought that! Modern taste! History may go hang; they're all for tuppence-coloured sentiment nowadays. I beg your pardon, my dear; I didn't catch. That's what I'm, trying to say here. The Orpheus legend symbolizes to this day the call of Beauty! 
 Dash it! I get so sleepy; I wish you'd tell them to make the after-dinner coffee twice as strong. How does this strike you? 
 "Many Renaissance pictures, especially those of Botticelli, Francesca and Piero di Cosimo were inspired by such legends as that of Orpheus, and we owe a tiny gem--like Raphael 'Apollo and Marsyas' to the same Pagan inspiration." Quite. I might develop that: "We owe it our revolt against the academic; or our disgust at 'big business,' and all the grossness of commercial success. We owe -". 
 
 Eh! 
 Possibly. But--er 
 I mustn't say that here--hardly! Most people think a lute is a sort of flute. 
 My dear, if you're not going to sing again, d'you mind sitting down? I want to concentrate. Mind the dew! 
 Not bad! Not bad! The Christian virtues and the dew. 
 "How far we can trace the modern resurgence against the Christian virtues to the symbolic figures of Orpheus, Pan, Apollo, and Bacchus might be difficult to estimate, but -" 
 
 She'll get her throat bad. 
 Sounds queer at night-H'm! 
 
 Phew! Beastly dream! Boof! H'm! 
 Blanche! Blanche! 
 Made trees-made trees! 
 Blanche! WIFE's Where are you? I say--I I've been asleep--had a dream. Come in. I'll tell you. 
 I dreamed I saw a-faun on that boulder blowing on a pipe. 
 With two damned little rabbits and a fox sitting up and listening. And then from out there came our friend Orpheus playing on his confounded lute, till he actually turned that tree there into you. And gradually he-he drew you like a snake till you--er--put your arms round his neck and--er--kissed him. Boof! I woke up. Most unpleasant. Why! Your hair's down! Why? What on earth? Good heavens, Blanche, what's the matter with you to-night? 
 My dear, I really don't know what you mean. My dear, this is--this is--awful. 
 I'm--I'm upset. I've never known you so--so - 
 There, there! I'm sorry, darling; I really am. You're kipped--you're kipped. 
 Better? 
 All right, now? Well, I'll try and finish this to-night; then, to-morrow we might have a jaunt. How about a theatre? There's a thing--they say --called "Chinese Chops," that's been running years. Very queer the power suggestion has over the mind. Very queer! There's nothing really in animism, you know, except the curious shapes rocks, trees and things take in certain lights--effect they have on our imagination. 
 What's the matter now? 
 "The Orpheus legend is the -- er--apotheosis of animism. Can we accept -" 
 
