 Let her go on prattling out Darmer to my face, as it is often she called it behind my shoulders. Darmer the chandler, the miser got the spoil of the Danes, that was mocked at since the time of the Danes. I know well herself and the world have me christened with that nickname. I am thinking it is not love of my four bones brings you on this day under my thatch? Picking up newses and tidings of me ye do be. It is short the delay was on you coming. My joy he is, scaring you with his bark! If it wasn't for him you would have me clogged and tormented, coming in and bothering me every whole minute. What's that you are doing with my broom? What call had you to do away with them, and they belonging to myself? Is it to bleed to death I should and I to get a tip of a billhook or a slasher? You and your vagaries to have left me bare, that I would be without means to quench the blood, and it to rise up from my veins and to scatter on every side! The place swept to flitters! What is that man of yours doing and he handling my turf? To dry it is it? 
 And what length would it be without being burned and consumed and it not to be wet putting it on? 
 And I after stacking it purposely in the corner where there does be a drip from the thatch. What way could I bear the expense of a fire on the hearth and it to leave smouldering and to break out into a blaze? A month's cutting maybe to go to ashes within three minutes, and into wisps of smoke. And the price of turf in this year gone wild out of measure, and it packed so roguish you could read the printed speeches on the paper through the sods you do be buying in the creel. Where did you get those spuds are roasting there upon the hearth? My seed potatoes! Samples I got from the guardians and asked in the shops and in stores till I'd gather enough to set a few ridges in the gardens would serve me through the length of the year! Do not be breaking it so wasteful! The mice to have news there was as much as that of crumbs in the house, they would be running the same as chickens around the floor! Which of ye is after meddling with my clock? It to be beyond its time, wouldn't that save fire and candles sending me to my bed early in the night? Leave down those boots! 
 Is it that you are wearing out the uppers with scraping at them and scratching! Is it to rob me ye are come into this place? Ha! Is it to think I was dying ye did? Well, I am not. I am not so easy quenched. Strength and courage I have, to keep a fast grip of what I own. I have it in my mind that ye are. Very ravenous to run through my money ye are. Striving to scare me out of my courage and my wits, the way I'll give in to go making my will. I'll make it, sick or sound, if I have a mind to make it. The whole of ye think yourselves to be very managing and very wise! Why wouldn't I? It is in the asylums all the sense is these times. There is only the fools left outside. A hasty, cranky woman in the house is worse than you to lay your hand upon red coals! I know well your tongue that is as sharp as the sickle of the moon! The devil upon the winds she is! That one was born into the world having the use of the bow and arrows! I know well what is your aim and your drift! Whoever I'll will it to will have call to it! Having it to give is it? Do you see that lock on the door? Can you make any guess what is inside of it? Lay now your eye to that lock hole. If you cannot see it, try can you get the smell of it. Take a good draw of it now; lay your head along the hinges of the door. So now ye may quit and scamper out of this, the whole throng of ye, robbers and hangmen and bankbreakers, bargers and bad characters, and you may believe me telling you that is the nearest ye ever will come to my gold! 
 What are you looking for? Maybe it's for fists you are looking? Have you any traffic with that congregation is after going out? You to have in you any of the breed of the Kirwans that is my own, I'd rise the tongs and pitch you out from the door! I'll give leave to no strolling vagabond to sit in any place at all. What's that you're doing? Go toss outside so. Hurry on now. What is that in your hand? Is it gold it is? You'll mind it well if you have sense. You'll be apt to lose it going to races. You to set all you own upon a horse that might fail at the leaps! It is a very foolish thing doing that. You will surely lose it. A great pity to go lose a gold sovereign to some schemer you never saw before. It to be swept by a trick of the loop man! To go lose the whole of it in one second of time! To go change it into silver and into copper! That would be the most pity in the world. Gold! Believe me it is a good thing to hold and a very heartbreak the time it is lost. 
 Pure gold! There is not a thing to be got with it as worthy as what it is itself! There is no comfort in any place and it not in it. The Queen's image on it and her crown. Solid between the fingers; weighty in the palm of the hand; as beautiful as ever I saw. Gold! My darling it is! From the hollows of the world to the heights of the world there is no grander thing to be found. My bone and my marrow! Let me have the full of my arms of it and I'll not ask the flowers of field or fallow or the dancing of the Easter sun! He has not! He has not! I wish to my God it was true! It is not full! It is not! Whisper now. It is many a time I thought it to be full, full at last, full at last! To take it and to shake it I do. It is often I gave myself a promise the time there will be no sound from it, I will give in to nourish myself, I will rise out of misery. But every time I will try it, I will hear a little clatter that tells me there is some space left; some small little hole or gap. Weightier it gets and weightier, but there will always be that little sound. I thought to stop it one time, putting in a fistful of hayseed; but I felt in my heart that was not dealing fair and honest with myself, and I rose up and shook it out again, rising up from my bed in the night time. I near got my death with the cold and the draught fell on me doing that. Hearken now. I am old and the long road behind me. You are young and in your strength. It is you is rich, it is I myself that is poor. You know well, you to get the offer, you would not change your lot with my own. Isn't it a great pity there to be that hollow within in my gallon, and the little coin that would likely just fill it up, to be going out of the house? You might never find so good a way to open Heaven to yourself with a charity. To be bringing peace to an old man that has not long to live in the world! You wouldn't think now how quiet I would sleep, and the good dreams would be going through me, and that gallon jar to be full and to make no sound the time I would roll it on the floor. That would be a great deed for one little pound piece to do! I would not dare put anything at all upon a chance. 
 It would make such a good appearance in the little gap! No, I'm in dread I might lose. I to lose, you may kill me on the moment! My heart is driven down in the sole of my shoe! There is some shiver forewarning me I will lose! I made a strong oath I never would give in again to try any sort of chance. It was through my luck leaving me I swore against betting and gaming. Well--maybe - I dare not. No--stop--wait a minute. I might not lose. I'll chance it! You cannot go back of your word. 
 Heads! I say heads! My bitter grief! Ochone! You will not. What's tosses? Look at here what is put in my way! 
 Wait a second. 
 Let you not stir out of that! 
 Give me the pack. 
 I didn't feel a card between my fingers this seven and a half-score years! 
 I'll win it back! I won't begrudge spending a penny candle, no, or two penny candles! I'll play you to the brink of day! 
 Are you acquainted with any person, Ralph Hessian, is in need of a savage dog? I have no use for him presently. What signifies, what signifies? All must die, all must die. The longest person that will live in the world, he is bound to go in the heel. Life is a long road to travel and a hard rough track under the feet. He might want him, he might want him. 
 It is a bad load surely. It was the love of money destroyed Buonaparte where he went robbing a church, without the men of learning are telling lies. There was a king out in Foreign went astray through the same sin. His people that made a mockery of him after his death, filling up his jaws with rendered gold. Believe me, any person goes coveting after riches puts himself under a bad master. In my opinion it was to keep temptation from our path the gold of the world was covered under rocks and in the depths of the streams. Believe me it is best leave it where it is, and not to meddle with the Almighty. I am under misfortune indeed. I would not wish, for all the glories of Ireland, to leave temptation in the path of my own sister or my kin, or to twist a gad for their neck. At the time of the judgment of the mountain, when the sun and moon will be all one with two blackberries, it is not being pampered with plenty will serve you, beside being great with the angels! I'll go bring my poor Jubair out of this. A great sin and a great pity to be losing provision with a dog, and the image of the saints maybe to be going hungry and bare. How do I know what troop might be bearing witness against me before the gate of heaven? To be cherishing a ravenous beast might be setting his teeth in their limbs! To give charity to the poor is the best religion in Ireland. Didn't our Lord Himself go beg through three and thirty years? 
 
 If it should go it must go. That was allotted to me in the skies. If I had not, why would I have been setting my mind upon eternity and striving to bring to mind a few prayers? And to have parted with my wicked dog? Delia, Delia, what was I laying down a while ago? It is the love of riches has twisted your heart and your mind. It was foretold for me, I to go stint the body till I near put myself to death without the Lord calling on me, and to lose every whole pound after in one night's card playing. With that same pack of cards you laid out under my hand, I lost all I had gathered to that one. Give me, boy, one answer. What in the world wide put venture into you that made you go face the dog? You know that, what no one in the parish or out of it ever found out till now! You should have put your hand in his jaw to know that much! A right lad you are and a lucky lad. I would nearly wish you of my own blood and of my race. That is what I would wish. What Simon Niland? Do you tell me so! What way did it fail me to recognise that, and he having daring and spirit the same as used to be rising up in myself in my early time? The same year my luck turned against me, and every horse I would back would get the staggers on the course, or would fail to rise at the leaps. All the strength of fortune went from me at that time, it is into himself it flowed and ran. The dead spit and image of myself he is. Stop with me here through the winter season and through the summer season! You to be in the house it is not an unlucky house will be in it. The Royalty of England and of Spain cannot touch upon yourself. I am prouder of you than if you wrote the wars of Homer or put down Turgesius of the Danes! You are a lad that can't be beat. It is you are the Lamb of Luck! Is that what you are saying? Well, I am not so easy robbed as you think! 
 Is that what you call being robbed? You are out of it! It is Jubair did that much for me. Jubair, my darling, it is tonight I'll bring him back to the house! It is not in the box he will be any more but alongside the warmth of the hearth. The time I went unloosing his chain, didn't he scrape with his paw till he showed me all I had lost hid in under the straw, and it in a spotted bag! 
 Is it that I would keep it from you where it was won fair? It is a rogue of a man would do that. Where would be the use, and I knowing you could win it back from me at your will, and the five trumps coming into your hand? It is to share it we will and share alike, so long as it will not give out! Delia, my darling, I'll go as far as that on this day of wonders. I'll handsel you and welcome. I'll bestow on you the empty jar. 
 
