 _(Looking round cautiously and going back to door.)_ You may come in, Staffy and Ralph. There would seem to be no person here.
 _(Crossing and knocking at inner door.)_ He is not in it. He is likely slipped out unknownst.
 What ailed him to go own a jennet, he that has means to stable a bay horse would set the windows rattling on the public road, and it sparkling over the flintstones after dark?
 A queer sort of a brother he is. To go searching Ireland you wouldn't find queerer. But as soon as I got word what happened I bade Ralph to put the tacklings on the ass. We must have nature about us some way. There was silence between us long enough.
 Why wouldn't it, and we being all the brothers and sisters ever he had, since Jane Niland, God rest her soul, went out last Little Christmas from the troubles and torments of the world.
 It is ourselves can bear witness to that, where he came into the house ere yesterday, having no way of living, since death and misfortune scattered him, but as if he was left down out of the skies.
 He would give leave to the poorhouse to bury him, if he could but put in his will they should leave it down with his bones.
 There is no more grasping man within the four walls of the world. A strange thing he turning to be so ugly and prone to misery, where he was reared along with myself. I have the first covetous person yet to meet I would like! I never would go thrusting after gold, I to get all Lord Clanricarde's estate.
 _(Taking up a jug.)_ No sign in this vessel of anything that would leave a sign. I'll go bail he takes his tea in a black state, and the milk to be rotting in the churn.
 For pity's sake! That is the top-coat and the hat he used to be wearing and he riding his long-tailed pony to every racecourse from this to the Curragh of Kildare. A good class of cloth it should be to last out through seventeen years.
 Every horse he would back at that time it would surely win all before it. I saw the people thronging him one time, taking him in their arms for joy, and the winnings coming into his hand. It is likely they ran out through the fingers as swift nearly as they flowed in.
 _(Looking at dresser.)_ Spiders' webs heaped in ridges the same as windrows in a bleach of hay. What now is that there above on the upper shelf?
 _(Dusting them.)_ You would give your seven oaths the dust to have been gathering on them since the time of the Hebrews' Flood. I'll tell you now a thing to do. We being here before him in the house, why wouldn't we ready it and put some sort of face upon it, the way he would be in humour with us coming in.
 _(Dusting.)_ I would wish no gift from any person at all, but that my mind is set at this time on a fleet of white goats and a guinea-hen are to be canted out from the Spanish woman at Lisatuwna cross by reason of the hanging gale.
 There is no sin coveting things are of no great use or profit, but would show out good and have some grandeur around them. Those goats now! Browsing on the blossoms of the bushes they would be, or the herbs that give out a sweet smell. Stir yourself, Staffy, and throw your eye on that turf beyond in the corner. It is that wet you could wring from it splashes and streams. Let you rise the ashes from the sods are on the hearth and redden them with a goosewing, if there is a goosewing to be found. There is no greater beauty to be met with than the leaping of a little yellow flame.
 Let you do it, Ralph so. _(Takes potatoes from a sieve.)_ A roasted potato would be a nice thing to put before him, in the place of this old crust of a loaf. Put them in now around the sods, the way they will be crispy before him.
 _(At clock.)_ I'll set to the right time of day the two hands of the clock are pointing a full hour before the sun. Take, Staffy, that pair of shoes and lessen from them the clay of the land. That much of doing will not break your heart. He will be as proud as the fallen angels seeing the way we have all set out before him. _(A harsh laugh is heard at inner door. They turn and see Darmer watching them.)_
 It is Darmer was within all the time!
 And I after travelling through the most of the day on the head of you being wounded and hurt, thinking you to be grieving to see one of your own! And I in dread of my life stealing past your wicked dog.
 There is no person in Ireland only yourself but would have as much welcome for me to-day as on the first day ever they saw me!
 To do away with the spider's webs I did, where the shelves were looped with them and smothered. Look at all that came off of that pack of cards.
 Is it that you are without e'er a rag, and that ancient coat to be hanging on the wall?
 Let you be satisfied so with your mouldy bit of loaf. _(Breaks a bit from it and hands it to him.)_
 It was a full hour before its time.
 I tell you we only came in getting word that you were done and dying.
 Let you not be talking that way! We are no grabbers and no thieves!
 The world knows I am not ravenous! I never gave my heart to silver or to gold but only to the thing it would bring in. But to hold from me the thing my heart is craving after, you might as well blacken the hearth.
 Little thanks you'll get from me if you make it or do not make it. That is the naked truth.
 Let you go will it so to an asylum for fools.
 You to bestow it outside of your own kindred for to benefit and comfort your soul, all the world will say it is that you had it gathered together by fraud.
 I will not. But the time he will be lying under the flagstone, it is holly rods and brambles will spring up from out of his thorny heart.
 The character you will leave after you will be worse out and out than Herod's!
 You not to give fair play to your own, it is a pitiful ghost will appear in your image, questing and craving our prayers!
 I say any man has a right to give thanks to the heavens, and he having decent people to will his means to, in place of people having no call to it.
 Or to part with it to low people and to mean people, and you having it to give.
 I do see it and have eyes to see it.
 It is likely it is what there is so much talk about, your own full gallon of gold. _(Ralph takes off his hat.)_
 He has no more nature than the brutes of the field, hunting and howling after us.
 There is no dread on me. When he gets in humour I will tackle up again to him. It is too far I came to be facing back to Loughtyshassy and I fasting from the price of my goats! Little collars I was thinking to buckle around their neck the same as a lady's lapdog, and maybe so far as a small clear-sounding bell. _(They go out, Darmer comes back. He puts on clock, rakes out fire, picks up potatoes and puts them back in sieve, takes bread into his room. There is a knock at the door. Then it is cautiously opened and Simon Niland comes in, and stands near the hearth. Darmer comes back and sees him.)_
 _(At the door)_. Is it that ye are within, Staffy and Ralph?
 Put him out the door!
 Put him out I say! _(Pushes Simon to door.)_ Let him drowse out the day in the car shed! I tell you Darmer is at hand!
 He is coming I say. I am partly in dread of him. I am afeard and affrighted!
 He is mad this time out and out. Wait now till you'll see! _(She goes behind dresser. Darmer comes to the door. Staffy goes behind a chair. Ralph seizes a broom.)_
 _(To Ralph.)_ Let you raise your voice now, and come around him on my own behalf.
 _(To Ralph.)_ Tell him I'll chance it.
 _(Shrinking back.)_ I would as soon nearly not get it at all, where it might bring me to the wretched state of Darmer! _(_Dog heard barking.)_
 _(Coming forward.)_ Will you believe me now telling you he is gone unsteady in the head?
 It would be worse again he that is gone out of his latitude to be brought away to the asylum.
 But I know. He to die, and to make no will, it is ourselves, by rule and by right, that would lay claim to his wealth.
 Would you say there would be no fear the Government might stretch out and take charge of it, saying him to be outside of his reason?
 He to be stopping here, and being light in the brain, it is likely some thief travelling the road might break his way in and sweep all.
 To take some cross turn he might, and to come at us violent and maybe tear the flesh from our bones.
 There is but the one thing to do. To bring it away out of this and to lodge it within in my own house. We can settle out a place under the hearth.
 Let you go outside and be watching the road while Staffy will be bringing out the gold.
 Let you go out so and be keeping a watch, and Ralph will put it on the ass-car under sacks.
 We are doing but what is fair and is right.
 There is no person to do it but the one. _(Calls from the door.)_ Come in here from the shed, Simon Niland, if the sluggishness is banished from your eyesight and from your limbs.
 Have you any desire to reach out your hand for to save a mortal life?
 The seven senses to be going astray on him, what would ail any tramp or neuk that would be passing the road, not to rob him and to lay him stone dead?
 Let you do it for my own sake so. You heard me giving out news on yesterday of the white goats are on the bounds of being sold. The neighbours will give me no more credit, where they loaned me the price of a crested side car was auctioned out at a quality sale.
 I am no way greedy, I would ask neither food or bite, I would not begrudge turning Sunday into Friday if I could but get my heart's desire. Such a thing now as a guinea-hen would be bringing fashion to the door, throwing it a handful of yellow meal, and it in its speckled plumage giving out its foreign call!
 You that are near in blood to refuse me so small an asking, what chance would I have sending requests to Heaven that is beyond the height of the clouds! _(Weeps.)_
 Was I right now saying Darmer is turned innocent? Sure the door was not locked at all.
 Why wouldn't we open it here? It would be handier bringing it away in small divides.
 Let you draw out the cork from it.
 It is with banknotes it is stuffed that are deaf and do be giving out no sound. _(She pokes in a knitting pin.)_ Nothing in it at all, but as bare as the canopy of heaven!
 Some robber or some great rogue. A terrible thing such ruffians to be around in the world! To turn and rob a poor man of all he had spared and had earned.
 He hasn't hardly the intellect to be the thief.
 What cause has he to be making a run?
 Go out, Ralph, till you will bring it in. _(Ralph goes out.)_
 If you are honest let you stop within and not to put a bad appearance upon yourself making off.
 Do not let go your hold. He to go out into the street, he has the wide world before him.
 Why would you look to find coins of money down in Jubair's bed?
 No, but let the man owned it do that.
 _(Going to it.)_ It is time for you, Patrick, come in. _(Darmer comes in dragging a sack.)_
 Not a one penny left of all you have cast into its mouth.
 Not a tint of it left. What now do you say, hearing that?
 Is it that you had knowledge ere this of it being swept and lost?
 Let you turn around till you will see before you the man that is the robber and the thief!
 Is it that you are contented to be made this one's prey?
 Is it at cards you lost it?
 Is it taking that lad you are to be a fool? I thinking him to be as simple as you'd see in the world, and he putting bread upon his own butter as we slept!
 Of your own blood is it?
 Is it that you are taking Simon Niland to be a stranger?
 Your own nephew and only son to your sister Sarah.
 He was born the very year of you coming into possession of this place.
 A little handsel to myself would do the both of you no harm at all.
 I'll take it. I'll let on it to be weighty and I facing back into Loughtyshassy.
 Ah, what's goats and what is guinea-hens? Did ever you see yoked horses in a coach, their skin shining out like shells, rising their steps in tune the same as a patrol of police? There are peacocks on the lawns of Lough Cutra they were telling me, having each of them a hundred eyes. _(Goes to door.)_
