 Herself that thought to find him at the brink of death and nearing his last leap, after what happened him with the jennet. We heard tell of it as far as we were. She was thinking it might be the cause of him getting his death sooner than God has it promised to him, and that it might turn his mind more friendly like towards us, he knowing us to be at hand for to settle out his burying. He has not, unless the pound piece the mother put into his hand at the last. It is much she had that itself. The time Tom Niland died from her, he didn't leave her hardly the cat. It is what herself was saying, it would be no advantage to him to be coming here at all, he being as he is half light, where there is nothing only will or wit could pick any profit out of Darmer. She did not let on to him what side were we facing, and we travelling out from Loughtyshassy. There is no one could lift it--God bless it--they were telling me. Filled up it is and brimmed to the very brink. She never would, only at a time she might have her own means spent and consumed. 
 That's a queer cut of a hat. That now should have been a good top-coat in its time. 
 It is but a pack of cards. And the way he might incline to put into our hand some good promise or some gift. 
 And the way he will see you are a good housekeeper and will mind well anything he might think fit to give. Glory be to God! Ah, it is not to dispraise you they put it on you, but to show you out so wealthy and so rich. It was herself thought to be serviceable to you, setting out the fuel that was full of dampness where it would get an air of the fire. She but thought it would be more answerable to you being dry. Herself that brought them out from the sieve, thinking to make ready your meal. Thinking to be comfortable to you she was, the way you would make us welcome from this out. She would not be wishful you to do that the time your mind would be vexed. 
 It is all dusky within. It fails me to see any shining thing. 
 I thought it was to lay him out with candles we were brought here. I declare I came nearer furnishing out a corpse myself with the start I got. Who would it be but Simon Niland, that is come following after us. It would be as well for ourselves maybe he not to be too great with Darmer. I wonder what way did that lad make his way into this place. Wait now till I'll waken and question him. 
 Rouse yourself up now. We are, and another along with us. Ah, there's no danger of him coming around Darmer. He is simple and has queer talk too. Has he the frown on him yet? He should be in terrible rages so. There was no dread on you yesterday, and he cursing and roaring the way he was. It is what herself is saying, you to be quitting the world as it seems, it is as good for you make over to her your crock of gold. He surely got some vision or some warning, or there lit on him a fit or a stroke. It would be a bad thing he to meet with his death unknown to us. I don't know. That would be the worst of all. We to be forced to hire an attorney against them, till we would break one another at law. It would be right for us keep some sort of a watch on it. What way now will we bring away the crock? Do it you. I am not of his own kindred and his family. Any person to get a sketch of me bringing it away they might nearly take myself to be a thief. Maybe so. But any neighbour to be questioning me, it might be hard put a skin on the story. It being certain it will be brought away from him, it is best it to be kept in the family, and not to go nourishing lawyers or thieves. Picking the eyes out of my own head they are, to pay the little bills they have against her. I wonder you not to give in to us, when all the world knows God formed young people for to be giving aid to elder people, and beyond all to them that are near to them in blood. There is no person having sense, but would take means, by hook or by crook, to make his pocket stiff and he to be given his fair chance. It is to save you from starvation we are wishful to do, as much as to bring profit to ourselves. He should have the key in some secret place. It is best for you give the lock a blow of your foot. So it is and no mistake. I am in dread it might work a hole down through the timber of the car. The way we would make sure of getting our own share at the last. I don't know can I lift it. 
 The Lord protect and save us! There is no weight in it at all! There being nothing within in it, where now is the gold? My grief it is there being no more hangings for thieves, that are worse again than murderers that might do their deed out of heat. It is thieving is the last crime. Take care might he be nearer than what you think! 
 
 What makes you go out in such a hurry? 
 Here now is the box. A lad of that sort will not be safe but in the gaol. Let us give him into the grip of the law. You are after being robbed and left bare. Herself made a prophecy you would be robbed with the weakening of your wits, and sure enough it has come about. We to have known all then we know now, we need not have wasted on him our advice. There is nothing worth while in his keeping, and all he had gathered after being robbed. The neighbours seeing it and taking you to be his heir you might come to your goats yet. 
