 For what I won't get seemingly, that is a welcome.
 It is not, before I will get my rest. I couldn't box to-night if I was the Queen of England.
 I seen no person good or bad, but a dog and it on the chain.
 I suppose you would not begrudge me to rest myself for a while, _(Sits down.)_
 All right so. _(Tosses a coin he takes from his pocket, tied in a spotted handkerchief.)_
 Pitching a coin I was to see would it bid me go west or east.
 _(Stooping and groping.)_ I will after I will find it.
 Wait till I'll kindle a match. _(Lights one and picks up coin.)_
 You should know.
 It is all I have of means in the world. I never handled a coin before it, but my bite to be given me and my bed.
 It is towards the east it bade me go. I'll travel as far as the races of Knockbarron to-morrow.
 I'll go bet with it, and see what way will it turn out.
 It might not. Some have luck and are born lucky and more have run through their luck. If I lose it, it is lost. It would not keep me long anyway. I to win, I will have more and plenty.
 If I do I have nothing to get or to fall back on. It is some other one must take my charges.
 Sure you must take some risk. You cannot put your hands around the world.
 It is not with that class I will make free.
 I will make four divides of it.
 I'll chance it all upon the one jock so.
 It is likely it is the same nearly as any other one.
 I am thinking you should be Darmer. I heard said Darmer has a full crock of gold.
 That is what the world says anyway. I heard it as far as the seaside.
 Full and brimming to the brink. That is the way it was told.
 And it wasn't after?
 What signifies that when you have so much in it?
 It is best for me be going on where I might find my bed,
 I suppose I might not. I'd as lief keep my countenance and my run.
 Is it that you are asking it of me?
 I'll toss you for it.
 Leave it alone so. _(Turns away.)_
 Head or harp?
 Take your chance or leave it.
 That is poor courage.
 You didn't make it but with yourself.
 It might turn back fresh and hearty where you gave it so long a rest.
 Here now.
 _(Going to door.)_ I'll make my bet so according to a dream I had. It is on a red horse I will put it to-morrow.
 I'll win surely following my dream.
 I'm in dread of that. All turns to the man is rich.
 You said no and I'll take no.
 Let me go out from you tempting me.
 Harps it is. I win.
 I'll toss you for another.
 Where's the stakes?
 Hurry on or I won't stop.
 Come on so. _(Shuffles cards.)_
 Spades are trumps.
 _(Drowsily.)_ Who is that stirring me?
 Do not be rousing me, where I am striving to catch a hold of the tail of my last dream.
 I never asked and never looked for it.
 A bald cat there was in the dream, was keeping watch over jewelleries in a cave.
 _(At door_)_ I was thinking to go travel my road. 
 _(Coming in.)_ Whose life is that?
 Outside of his knowledge is it?
 Is it to steal it I should?
 Ah, what call have I to do that much and maybe put myself in danger of the judge, for the sake of a man is without sense. 
 I have no mind to be brought within the power of the law. 
 It might be guarded by a serpent in a tree, or by unnatural things would be in the similitude of cats.
 I would not wish a head to follow me and leap up on the table and wrestle me, or to drink against me with its gory mouth.
 I'll go do your bidding so. I will go bring out the crock.
 I'll do that. _(He gives door a kick. It opens easily.)_ 
 _(Dragging out jar.)_ Here it is now.
 I tell you I never since the day I was born could be charged with the weight of a brass pin!
 So I will make it out. Where now is Darmer?
 What are you saying? The dog gone is it? _(Goes to door.)_
 What is that to you? 
 Let me mind my own business.
 To make a search I must in that dog's kennel of straw. 
 Let me out! I tell you I have a thing concealed in the box.
 _(Breaking away and searching it)_ Where at all is it vanished?
 Where at all is it?
 Not a one pound left! 
 It is there I hid it.
 All that was in the crock and that I took from it. Where now is my bag of gold?
 Thief yourself! You that had a plan made up to bring it away.
 Ah, what venture? And he being as he is without teeth?
 That is my treasure and my bag!
 It is as well for you have it back where it stopped so short with myself.
 _(Putting his hand on the jar.)_ I don't know. _(To Darmer_) It might be a nice thing for the two of us to start gathering the full of it again.
