 Take care would Darmer ask us to cross the threshold at all. I would not ask to go pushing on him, but to wait till he would call to us himself. He is not an easy led man. 
 Sure he owns no fourfooted beast only the dog abroad in its box. To make its way into the haggard the jennet did, the time it staggered him with a kick. To forage out some grazing it thought to do, beyond dirt and scutchgrass among the stones. Very cross jennets do be, as it is a cross man it met with. 
 There is nothing left of that marriage now, only one young lad is said to be mostly a fool. 
 The lad to have any wit around him he would have come travelling hither along with yourselves, to see would he knock any kindness out of Darmer.
 It is likely he will get tidings as good as yourself. It is said, and said largely, Darmer has a full gallon jar of gold.
 His heart and his soul gone into it. He is death on that gallon of gold. 
 A man could live an easy life surely and that much being in the house. 
 The house is very racked beside what it was. The hungriest cabin in the whole ring of Connemara would not show out so empty and so bare. 
 The time he was young and fundless he had not a bad reaching hand. He never was thrifty but lavish till he came into the ownership of the land. It is as if his luck left him, he growing timid at the time he had means to lose. 
 He grew to be very dark and crabbed from the time of the father's death. His mind was on his halfpenny ever since. 
 They should maybe be the very same that brought him profit in his wild days. He always had a lucky hand. 
 That was the way with you, Delia, from the time you could look out from the half-door, to be coveting pictures and fooleries, that would shape themselves in your mind. 
 In my opinion there will no pay-day come for this work, but only a thank-you job; a County Clare payment, 'God spare you the health!' 
 What are you talking about, Delia? It is Patrick you were meaning to say.
 We heard tell you were after being destroyed with a jennet.
 I was saying myself not to meddle with it. It is hurry is a worse friend than delay.
 Do not be annoying him now. 
 Yourself that rose him out of his wits and his senses. We will sup sorrow for this day's work where he will put curses after us. It is best for us go back to my place. It may be to-morrow that his anger will be cured up.
 Who is it at all is in it?
 Stretched and sleeping all the same as if there was a pin of slumber in his hair, as in the early times of the world. The day passing without anything doing. That one will never win to a fortune.
 Will Delia make any headway I wonder. She had good courage to go face him, and he abroad on the land, sitting stooped on the bent body of a bush.
 Is it seeking for a share of Darmer's wealth you are come?
 You are going the wrong road to reach to it.
 No person at all would stretch out his hand to a lad would be rambling and walking the world, and it in its darkness and sleep, and be drowsing and miching from labour through the hours the sun has command of. 
 Did his anger anyway cool down? 
 Is it that you are about to part Jubair your dog?
 Is it that you are without dread of robbers coming for to knock in your skull with a stone? Or maybe out in the night it is to burn you out of the house they would.
 Mike Merrick the huckster has an apple garden bought against the harvest. He should likely be seeking for a dog. There do be little lads passing to the school.
 Is it that you are tired and wore out carrying the load of your wealth?
 I would never go so far as robbery, but to bid it welcome I would, and it coming fair and easy into my hand.
 That is a master I'd be willing to engage with, he to give me my victuals and my ease.
 You'd be best without it. It is the weight of it is bowing you to your grave. When things are vexing your mind and you are trouble minded they'll be going through your head in the night time. There is a big shift and a great change in you since yesterday. There is not the half of you in it. You have the cut of the misfortune.
 Give over now your load to myself before the coming of the dusk. The way you are there'll be nothing left of you within three days. There is no way with you but death. 
 I see no other sign. He is a gone man surely. His understanding warped and turned backward. To see him blighted the way he is would stir the heart of a stone.
 Twice a child and only once a man. He is turned to be innocent with age.
 So we could do that, and he to come to his end in the bad place, God save the mark! 
 What way would we be sitting here watching it, the same as a hen on a pebble of flint, through a quarter or it might be three quarters of a year? He might drag for a good while yet, and live and linger into old days. 
 It is best for us do nothing so, but to leave it to the foreknowledge of God. 
 We can make a right division of it at such time as the end will come.
 Ah, I'm not so limber as what Ralph is. There does be giddiness and delay in my feet. It might fail me to heave it to a hiding place and to bring it away unknownst. 
 The man of this house that is your uncle and is owner of wealth closed up in a jar. We now being wittier than himself, that has lost his wits, have our mind made up to bring it away.
 It will be safe and well minded and lodged in loyal keeping, it being no profit to him that is at this time shook and blighted, but only a danger to his days. 
 Go in now and bring out from the room and to such place as we will command, that gallon jar of gold.
 What way will it be stealing, and the whole of us to be looking on at your deed?
 That's the way with them that are reared poor, they are the hardest after to humour, striving to bring everything to their own way. But there's a class of people in the world wouldn't do a hand's turn, no more than the bird upon the tree.
 Look now, Simon, let you be said and led by me. You having no great share of wisdom we are wishful to make a snug man of you and to put you on a right road. Go in now and you will not be kept out of your own profit and your share, and a harbour of plenty beyond all.
 Ah, that class is done away with this good while.
 You not to follow our say you will be brought to burn green ferns to boil your victuals, or to devour the berries of the bush.
 You that have not the substance of a crane's marrow, to go shrink from so small a bidding, let you go on the shaughraun or to the workhouse, where you would not take our advice.
 There is my whiteheaded boy! I'll keep a watch, the way Darmer will not steal in on us without warning.
 There should be great weight in it.
 _(Seizing and shaking it.)_ Not a one penny in it but clean empty. That beats all. 
 Some person should have made away with it. 
 They have done him a great wrong surely, taking from him all he had of comfort in his life.
 We to lay our hand on that vagabond we'll give him cruelty will force him to Christian habits.
 Sure enough it is with himself only we found him on the hearth this morning. 
 It is to Darmer, my fine boy, you will have to make out your case.
 He is gone down the road, where he brought away Jubair the dog.
 It is maybe our own business.
 _(Seizing him_)_ A man to go rush out headlong and money after being stolen, I have no mind to let him make his escape. 
 A strange place to go hiding things and a queer story altogether. 
 It is lies he was telling. There is nothing at all within in it only a wisp of barley straw.
 What is it is gone from you?
 What is it you hid?
 Do you hear what he is after saying?
 So he can task him with it, and he drawing to the door. 
 Well, there is nothing so certain in the world as the running of a fool to a fool. 
 What call has he or any of us to be stopping under Darmer's roof and he owning but the four walls presently and a poor little valley of land?
 I thought it was after being brought away from the two of you.
