 
 Hullo! Who are you? You the staff! What do you mean, man? Tush! Where are the others? Quite right. Most proper. Why aren't you at the front? But you can still do your bit. Many an older man is in the G.R.'s, or volunteering for home defence. Then why are you not in uniform? 
 I do not ask you, sir; and I will not allow you to say such things in my presence. Our statesmen are the greatest known to history. Our generals are invincible. Our army is the admiration of the world. 
 This town is inhabited by dastards. I say it with a full sense of responsibility, DASTARDS! They call themselves Englishmen; and they are afraid to fight. Yes, they fight one another; but they won't fight the Germans. 
 Mf! They'll have them here if they're not careful. 
 Do you mean to insinuate that hell is paved with MY good intentions--with the good intentions of His Majesty's Government? They told me that this town had set an example to all England in the matter of economy. I came down here to promise the Mayor a knighthood for his exertions. You don't come in. You go out. This is a fool of a place. I'm greatly disappointed. Deeply disappointed. 
 Do you mean to say, you scoundrel, that an Englishman is capable of selling his country to the enemy for gold? Beamish, it's an ill bird that fouls its own nest. 
 Can you tell me where I can find an intelligent being to take my orders? What! You mean to tell me that when the lives of the gallant fellows in our trenches, and the fate of the British Empire, depend on our keeping up the supply of shells, you are wasting money on sweeping the streets? What matters the death rate of Little Pifflington in a moment like this? Think of our gallant soldiers, not of your squalling infants. Beamish, the long and the short of it is, you are no patriot. Go downstairs to your office; and have that gas stove taken away and replaced by an ordinary grate. The Board of Trade has urged on me the necessity for economizing gas. 
 Both! Don't criticize your orders: obey them. Yours not to reason why: yours but to do and die. That's war. 
 A rise! Horatio Floyd Beamish, do you know that we are at war? Our gallant fellows are dying in the trenches; and you want a rise! Everybody else is making sacrifices without a thought of self; and you -- 
 Go, miserable pro-German. Another word, and I charge you under the Act with discouraging me. Go. The clerk blenches and goes out, cowed. The telephone rings. 
 Stop whistling instantly, sir. This is not a casino. Be seated, madam. 
 Madam, I am. I should not dream of describing myself so, Madam; but no doubt I have impressed my countrymen--and 
 Madam, I beg! Please! My military exploits are not a pleasant subject, unhappily. Yes, madam; and what was my reward? They said I had disobeyed orders, and sent me home. Have they forgotten Nelson in the Baltic? Has any British battle ever been won except by a bold initiative? I say nothing of professional jealousy, it exists in the army as elsewhere; but it is a bitter thought to me that the recognition denied me by my country--or rather by the Radical cabal in the Cabinet which pursues my family with rancorous class hatred--that this recognition, I say, came to me at the hands of an enemy--of a rank Prussian. How else should I be here instead of starving to death in Ruhleben? Yes, madam: the Colonel of the Pomeranian regiment which captured me, after learning what I had done, and conversing for an hour with me on European politics and military strategy, declared that nothing would induce him to deprive my country of my services, and set me free. I offered, of course, to procure the release in exchange of a German officer of equal quality; but he would not hear of it. He was kind enough to say he could not believe that a German officer answering to that description existed. 
 Had it penetrated to the brain I might never have sat on another Royal Commission. Fortunately we have strong heads, we Highcastles. Nothing has ever penetrated to our brains. 
 It will make no difference whatever to my services to my country. Though she slay me, yet will I, if not exactly trust in her, at least take my part in her government. I am ever at my country's call. Whether it be the embassy in a leading European capital, a governor-generalship in the tropics, or my humble mission here to make Little Pifflington do its bit, I am always ready for the sacrifice. Whilst England remains England, wherever there is a public job to be done you will find a Highcastle sticking to it. And now, madam, enough of my tragic personal history. You have called on business. What can I do for you? 
 Madam, the Foreign Office is staffed by my relatives exclusively. 
 All that is perfectly well known to this department, madam. 
 I have only three German brothers-in-law, madam. Really, from your tone, one would suppose that I had several. Pardon my sensitiveness on that subject; but reports are continually being circulated that I have been shot as a traitor in the courtyard of the Ritz Hotel simply because I have German brothers-in-law. 
 Yes? Yes, yes. She would be. Continue. 
 I see you are well connected, madam. Proceed. May I--
 He was originally called The Singing Oyster, because he sang drawing-room ballads with such an extraordinary absence of expression. He was then called the Blue Point for a season or two. Finally he became Blueloo. What on earth did he do that for? Good heavens! And you mean to tell me that Blueloo was such a dolt as to believe that she could succeed? Does he take me for a fool? Oh, never mind that. It is the idiocy of the thing I look at. He'll lose his bet; and serve him right! You need have no fear, madam. I hope she will come and try it on. Fascination is a game that two can play at. For centuries the younger sons of the Highcastles have had nothing to do but fascinate attractive females when they were not sitting on Royal Commissions or on duty at Knightsbridge barracks. By Gad, madam, if the siren comes here she will meet her match. 
 Madam! Oh, that! Pooh! I'm not afraid. 
 You did not say that the guns were moved. You said that Blueloo had ordered them to be moved. Not quite--at the War Office. No doubt those guns WILL be moved: possibly even before the end of the war. 
 Well, I should not go as far as that. 
 Well, our people have for some reason made up their minds that the German War Office is everything that our War Office is not--that it carries promptitude, efficiency, and organization to a pitch of completeness and perfection that must be, in my opinion, destructive to the happiness of the staff. My own view--which you are pledged, remember, not to betray--is that the German War Office is no better than any other War Office. I found that opinion on my observation of the characters of my brothers-in-law: one of whom, by the way, is on the German general staff. I am not at all sure that this list of gun emplacements would receive the smallest attention. You see, there are always so many more important things to be attended to. Family matters, and so on, you understand. The great advantage of being at war, madam, is that nobody takes the slightest notice of the House of Commons. No doubt it is sometimes necessary for a Minister to soothe the more seditious members of that assembly by giving a pledge or two; but the War Office takes no notice of such things. By no means, madam. It matters very much indeed. If this spy were to obtain possession of the list, Blueloo would tell the story at every dinner-table in London; and -- 
 I lose my post! What are you dreaming about, madam? How could I possibly be spared? There are hardly Highcastles enough at present to fill half the posts created by this war. No: Blueloo would not go that far. He is at least a gentleman. But I should be chaffed; and, frankly, I don't like being chaffed. I'm glad you see it in that light. And now, as a measure of security, I shall put that list in my pocket. 
 Yes: it is, isn't it? Lucy appeals to the imagination like no other woman. By the way 
 Yes: that is what she usually calls me. Please go on. 
 Is it blighter? That is a favorite expression of hers. 
 Come in. 
 I shall not permit it. What do they mean by taking my office staff? Good God! they will be taking our hunt servants next. 
 Have you any further business here, pray? Which waiter is it? The English one? Keep your impertinent surmises to yourself, sir. Remember that you are in the army now; and let me have no more of your civilian insubordination. Attention! Left turn! Quick march! Go to the guard-room and report yourself for disobeying orders. Now do you know what I mean? Nor I with you. Out with you. He seizes the clerk: and rushes him through the door. The moment the lady is left alone, she snatches a sheet of official paper from the stationery rack: folds it so that it resembles the list; compares the two to see that they look exactly alike: whips the list into her wallet: and substitutes the facsimile for it. Then she listens for the return of Augustus. A crash is heard, as of the clerk falling downstairs. Augustus returns and is about to close the door when the voice of the clerk is heard from below. 
 There's no more law for you, you scoundrel. You're a soldier now. 
 Goodbye. Goodbye. So sorry to lose you. Kind of you to come; but there was no real danger. You see, my dear little lady, all this talk about war saving, and secrecy, and keeping the blinds down at night, and so forth, is all very well; but unless it's carried out with intelligence, believe me, you may waste a pound to save a penny; you may let out all sorts of secrets to the enemy; you may guide the Zeppelins right on to your own chimneys. That's where the ability of the governing class comes in. Shall the fellow call a taxi for you? It does not seem to me an exceptionally thick poker. I rang for you to show the lady out. 
 What is it? Won't you come up? Yes. Do you want him? The lady wants you at the window. What on earth does she mean? The lady returns. Certainly. Certainly. 
 Shut up, will you? 
 Put me through to Lord Hungerford Highcastle... I'm his brother, idiot... That you, Blueloo? Lady here at Little Pifflington wants to speak to you. Hold the line. 
 Your bet! Nothing of the kind, madam. I have it here in my pocket. 
 There's nothing written on this. Where is the list of guns? You don't mean to say that -- What! Madam, I consider your conduct most unpatriotic. You make bets and abuse the confidence of the hardworked officials who are doing their bit for their country whilst our gallant fellows are perishing in the trenches -- 
