 [hastily putting aside his paper and replacing his feet on the floor]. Hullo! Who are you? 
 You the staff! What do you mean, man? 
 Tush! Where are the others? 
 Quite right. Most proper. Why aren't you at the front? 
 But you can still do your bit. Many an older man is in the G.R.'s, or volunteering for home defence. 
 Then why are you not in uniform? 
 [rising indignantly]. I do not ask you, sir; and I will not allow you to say such things in my presence. Our statesmen are the greatest known to history. Our generals are invincible. Our army is the admiration of the world. [Furiously.] How dare you tell me that the country is going to the dogs! 
 That's enough. Leave the room. [He sits down and takes up his pen, settling himself to work. The clerk shuffles to the door. Augustus adds, with cold politeness] Send me the Secretary. 
 Don't be insolent. Where is the gentleman I have been corresponding with: Mr Horatio Floyd Beamish? 
 You! Ridiculous. What right have you to call yourself by a pretentious name of that sort? 
 Is there nobody else to take my instructions? 
 If we were not at war, I should discharge you on the spot for disrespectful behavior. But England is in danger; and I cannot think of my personal dignity at such a moment. [Shouting at him.] Don't you think of yours, either, worm that you are; or I'll have you arrested under the Defence of the Realm Act, double quick. 
 Oh, damn your two and seven! Did you receive my letters? 
 I addressed a meeting here last night--went straight to the platform from the train. I wrote to you that I should expect you to be present and report yourself. Why did you not do so? 
 Did you tell them who you were? 
 This is too silly for anything. This town wants waking up. I made the best recruiting speech I ever made in my life; and not a man joined. 
 But I expressly told them their widows would have pensions. 
 [rising angrily]. This town is inhabited by dastards. I say it with a full sense of responsibility, DASTARDS! They call themselves Englishmen; and they are afraid to fight. 
 Yes, they fight one another; but they won't fight the Germans. 
 [returning to his seat with a grunt of disgust]. Mf! They'll have them here if they're not careful. [Seated.] Have you carried out my orders about the war saving? 
 The allowance of petrol has been reduced by three quarters? 
 And you have told the motor-car people to come here and arrange to start munition work now that their motor business is stopped? 
 Busy at what? 
 NEW cars! 
 Can't they take the train? 
 Psha! 
 This is perfectly monstrous. Not in the least what I intended. 
 Sir! 
 [springing to his feet]. Do you mean to insinuate that hell is paved with MY good intentions--with the good intentions of His Majesty's Government? 
 They told me that this town had set an example to all England in the matter of economy. I came down here to promise the Mayor a knighthood for his exertions. 
 You don't come in. You go out. This is a fool of a place. I'm greatly disappointed. Deeply disappointed. [Flinging himself back into his chair.] Disgusted. 
 Man, man: do you want to see picture shows when the Hun is at the gate? 
 Why didn't you? 
 Well, upon my soul! You are not ashamed to stand there and confess yourself a disgusting drunkard. 
 I did not know that I was talking to an imbecile. You ought to be ashamed of yourself. There must be an end of this drunken slacking. I'm going to establish a new order of things here. I shall come down every morning before breakfast until things are properly in train. Have a cup of coffee and two rolls for me here every morning at half-past ten. 
 Quite right, too. And was there no Englishman to take his place? 
 Shot an Englishman! 
 [rising again]. Do you mean to say, you scoundrel, that an Englishman is capable of selling his country to the enemy for gold? 
 Beamish, it's an ill bird that fouls its own nest. 
 [intensely irritated]. Can you tell me where I can find an intelligent being to take my orders? 
 What! You mean to tell me that when the lives of the gallant fellows in our trenches, and the fate of the British Empire, depend on our keeping up the supply of shells, you are wasting money on sweeping the streets? 
 What matters the death rate of Little Pifflington in a moment like this? Think of our gallant soldiers, not of your squalling infants. 
 Beamish, the long and the short of it is, you are no patriot. Go downstairs to your office; and have that gas stove taken away and replaced by an ordinary grate. The Board of Trade has urged on me the necessity for economizing gas. 
 [bawling furiously at him]. Both! Don't criticize your orders: obey them. Yours not to reason why: yours but to do and die. That's war. [Cooling down.] Have you anything else to say? 
 [reeling against the table in his horror]. A rise! Horatio Floyd Beamish, do you know that we are at war? 
 Our gallant fellows are dying in the trenches; and you want a rise! 
 Everybody else is making sacrifices without a thought of self; and you -- 
 [looking after him contemptuously]. Go, miserable pro-German. 
 Another word, and I charge you under the Act with discouraging me. Go. The clerk blenches and goes out, cowed. The telephone rings. 
[taking up the telephone receiver.] Hallo. Yes: who are you?... oh, Blueloo, is it?... Yes: there's nobody in the room: fire away. What?... A spy!... A woman!... Yes: brought it down with me. Do you suppose I'm such a fool as to let it out of my hands? Why, it gives a list of all our anti-aircraft emplacements from Ramsgate to Skegness. The Germans would give a million for it--what?... But how could she possibly know about it? I haven't mentioned it to a soul, except, of course, dear Lucy... Oh, Toto and Lady Popham and that lot: they don't count: they're all right. I mean that I haven't mentioned it to any Germans.... Pooh! Don't you be nervous, old chap. I know you think me a fool; but I'm not such a fool as all that. If she tries to get it out of me I'll have her in the Tower before you ring up again. [The clerk returns.] Sh-sh! Somebody's just come in: ring off. Goodbye. [He hangs up the receiver.] 
 What business is that of yours? However, if you will take the trouble to read the society papers for this week, you will see that I am engaged to the Honorable Lucy Popham, youngest daughter of -- 
 Of course I can see a female as easily as a male. Do you suppose I'm blind? 
 Oh, you mean am I disengaged. Tell the lady I have just received news of the greatest importance which will occupy my entire attention for the rest of the day, and that she must write for an appointment. 
 Stop. Does she seem to be a person of consequence? 
 Hm! Beautiful, did you say? 
 It will be extremely inconvenient for me to see her; but the country is in danger; and we must not consider our own comfort. Think how our gallant fellows are suffering in the trenches! Show her up. [The clerk makes for the door, whistling the latest popular ballad]. Stop whistling instantly, sir. This is not a casino. 
 Be seated, madam. 
[sitting also]. Madam, I am. 
 I should not dream of describing myself so, Madam; but no doubt I have impressed my countrymen--and [bowing gallantly] may I say my countrywomen--as having some exceptional claims to their consideration. 
 What you hear, madam, is the voice of my country, which now takes a sweet and noble tone even in the harsh mouth of high officialism. 
 It would be strange indeed if, after sitting on thirty-seven Royal Commissions, mostly as chairman, I had not mastered the art of public expression. Even the Radical papers have paid me the high compliment of declaring that I am never more impressive than when I have nothing to say. 
[gloomily]. Madam, I beg! Please! My military exploits are not a pleasant subject, unhappily. 
 Yes, madam; and what was my reward? They said I had disobeyed orders, and sent me home. Have they forgotten Nelson in the Baltic? Has any British battle ever been won except by a bold initiative? I say nothing of professional jealousy, it exists in the army as elsewhere; but it is a bitter thought to me that the recognition denied me by my country--or rather by the Radical cabal in the Cabinet which pursues my family with rancorous class hatred--that this recognition, I say, came to me at the hands of an enemy--of a rank Prussian. 
 How else should I be here instead of starving to death in Ruhleben? Yes, madam: the Colonel of the Pomeranian regiment which captured me, after learning what I had done, and conversing for an hour with me on European politics and military strategy, declared that nothing would induce him to deprive my country of my services, and set me free. I offered, of course, to procure the release in exchange of a German officer of equal quality; but he would not hear of it. He was kind enough to say he could not believe that a German officer answering to that description existed. [With emotion.] I had my first taste of the ingratitude of my own country as I made my way back to our lines. A shot from our front trench struck me in the head. I still carry the flattened projectile as a trophy [he throws it on the table; the noise it makes testifies to its weight]. Had it penetrated to the brain I might never have sat on another Royal Commission. Fortunately we have strong heads, we Highcastles. Nothing has ever penetrated to our brains. 
[with gloomy magnanimity]. It will make no difference whatever to my services to my country. Though she slay me, yet will I, if not exactly trust in her, at least take my part in her government. I am ever at my country's call. Whether it be the embassy in a leading European capital, a governor-generalship in the tropics, or my humble mission here to make Little Pifflington do its bit, I am always ready for the sacrifice. Whilst England remains England, wherever there is a public job to be done you will find a Highcastle sticking to it. And now, madam, enough of my tragic personal history. You have called on business. What can I do for you? 
[haughtily]. Madam, the Foreign Office is staffed by my relatives exclusively. 
[interrupting her somewhat loftily]. All that is perfectly well known to this department, madam. 
[injured, remonstrating]. I have only three German brothers-in-law, madam. Really, from your tone, one would suppose that I had several. Pardon my sensitiveness on that subject; but reports are continually being circulated that I have been shot as a traitor in the courtyard of the Ritz Hotel simply because I have German brothers-in-law. [With feeling.] If you had a German brother-in-law, madam, you would know that nothing else in the world produces so strong an anti-German feeling. Life affords no keener pleasure than finding a brother-in-law's name in the German casualty list. 
[all attention]. Yes? 
 Yes, yes. She would be. Continue. 
[deferentially]. I see you are well connected, madam. Proceed. 
 May I--[he proffers his hand. They shake, fervently. From this moment onward Augustus becomes more and more confidential, gallant, and charming.] 
[explaining]. He was originally called The Singing Oyster, because he sang drawing-room ballads with such an extraordinary absence of expression. He was then called the Blue Point for a season or two. Finally he became Blueloo. 
 What on earth did he do that for? 
 Good heavens! And you mean to tell me that Blueloo was such a dolt as to believe that she could succeed? Does he take me for a fool? 
 Oh, never mind that. It is the idiocy of the thing I look at. He'll lose his bet; and serve him right! 
 You need have no fear, madam. I hope she will come and try it on. Fascination is a game that two can play at. For centuries the younger sons of the Highcastles have had nothing to do but fascinate attractive females when they were not sitting on Royal Commissions or on duty at Knightsbridge barracks. By Gad, madam, if the siren comes here she will meet her match. 
[blushing]. Madam! 
 Oh, that! 
 Pooh! I'm not afraid. 
[cautiously]. You did not say that the guns were moved. You said that Blueloo had ordered them to be moved. 
 Not quite--at the War Office. No doubt those guns WILL be moved: possibly even before the end of the war. 
[lazily]. Well, I should not go as far as that. [Lowering his voice.] Will you swear to me not to repeat what I am going to say to you; for if the British public knew that I had said it, I should be at once hounded down as a pro-German. 
[again taking it easily]. Well, our people have for some reason made up their minds that the German War Office is everything that our War Office is not--that it carries promptitude, efficiency, and organization to a pitch of completeness and perfection that must be, in my opinion, destructive to the happiness of the staff. My own view--which you are pledged, remember, not to betray--is that the German War Office is no better than any other War Office. I found that opinion on my observation of the characters of my brothers-in-law: one of whom, by the way, is on the German general staff. I am not at all sure that this list of gun emplacements would receive the smallest attention. You see, there are always so many more important things to be attended to. Family matters, and so on, you understand. 
 The great advantage of being at war, madam, is that nobody takes the slightest notice of the House of Commons. No doubt it is sometimes necessary for a Minister to soothe the more seditious members of that assembly by giving a pledge or two; but the War Office takes no notice of such things. 
 By no means, madam. It matters very much indeed. If this spy were to obtain possession of the list, Blueloo would tell the story at every dinner-table in London; and -- 
[amazed and indignant]. I lose my post! What are you dreaming about, madam? How could I possibly be spared? There are hardly Highcastles enough at present to fill half the posts created by this war. No: Blueloo would not go that far. He is at least a gentleman. But I should be chaffed; and, frankly, I don't like being chaffed. 
 I'm glad you see it in that light. And now, as a measure of security, I shall put that list in my pocket. [He begins searching vainly from drawer to drawer in the writing-table.] Where on earth--? What the dickens did I--? That's very odd: I--Where the deuce--? I thought I had put it in the--Oh, here it is! No: this is Lucy's last letter. 
[delighted]. Yes: it is, isn't it? Lucy appeals to the imagination like no other woman. By the way [handing over the letter], I wonder could you read it for me? Lucy is a darling girl; but I really can't read her writing. In London I get the office typist to decipher it and make me a typed copy; but here there is nobody. 
 [eagerly]. Yes: that is what she usually calls me. Please go on. 
 [greatly interested]. Is it blighter? That is a favorite expression of hers. 
 [impatiently]. Come in. [The clerk enters, clean shaven and in khaki, with an official paper and an envelope in his hand.] What is this ridiculous mummery sir? 
 [rising wrathfully]. I shall not permit it. What do they mean by taking my office staff? Good God! they will be taking our hunt servants next. [Confronting the clerk.] What did the man mean? What did he say? 
 And did you dare to knock at my door and interrupt my business with this lady to repeat this man's ineptitudes? 
[haughtily approaching the clerk, who humorously makes a paralytic attempt to stand at attention]. Have you any further business here, pray? 
 Which waiter is it? The English one? 
 Keep your impertinent surmises to yourself, sir. Remember that you are in the army now; and let me have no more of your civilian insubordination. Attention! Left turn! Quick march! 
 Go to the guard-room and report yourself for disobeying orders. Now do you know what I mean? 
 Nor I with you. Out with you. He seizes the clerk: and rushes him through the door. The moment the lady is left alone, she snatches a sheet of official paper from the stationery rack: folds it so that it resembles the list; compares the two to see that they look exactly alike: whips the list into her wallet: and substitutes the facsimile for it. Then she listens for the return of Augustus. A crash is heard, as of the clerk falling downstairs. Augustus returns and is about to close the door when the voice of the clerk is heard from below. 
[shouting down to him]. There's no more law for you, you scoundrel. You're a soldier now. [He shuts the door and comes to the lady.] Thank heaven, the war has given us the upper hand of these fellows at last. Excuse my violence; but discipline is absolutely necessary in dealing with the lower middle classes. 
 Excellent. Really very clever of you. [Slyly.] Come: would you like to have a peep at the list [beginning to take the blank paper from the envelope]? 
 Why? It won't bite you [drawing it out further.] 
 Oh, that is a mere form. If you are really curious -- 
 You mean it was a real gun, and actually went off. How sad! how sad! [He pushes the sham list back into the envelope, and pockets it.] 
 What! Must you go? 
 Yes; but not before lunch, you know. I never can do much before lunch. And I'm no good at all in the afternoon. From five to six is my real working time. Must you really go? 
[shaking it affectionately as he leads her to the door, but fast pressing the bell button with his left hand]. Goodbye. Goodbye. So sorry to lose you. Kind of you to come; but there was no real danger. You see, my dear little lady, all this talk about war saving, and secrecy, and keeping the blinds down at night, and so forth, is all very well; but unless it's carried out with intelligence, believe me, you may waste a pound to save a penny; you may let out all sorts of secrets to the enemy; you may guide the Zeppelins right on to your own chimneys. That's where the ability of the governing class comes in. Shall the fellow call a taxi for you? 
 It does not seem to me an exceptionally thick poker. I rang for you to show the lady out. 
[running to the window and throwing it up]. What is it? Won't you come up? 
 Yes. Do you want him? 
 The lady wants you at the window. 
 What on earth does she mean? The lady returns. 
 Certainly. Certainly. [Taking the receiver down.] What number shall I get you? 
 The War Office!? 
 But--Oh, very well. [Into the receiver.] Hallo. This is the Town Hall Recruiting Office. Give me Colonel Bogey, sharp. A pause. 
[his ear at the receiver]. Shut up, will you? [Into the telephone.] What?... [To the lady.] Whom do you want to get on to? 
[into the telephone]. Put me through to Lord Hungerford Highcastle... I'm his brother, idiot... That you, Blueloo? Lady here at Little Pifflington wants to speak to you. Hold the line. [To the lady.] Now, madam [he hands her the receiver]. 
 Your bet! 
 Nothing of the kind, madam. I have it here in my pocket. [He takes the envelope from his pocket: draws out the paper: and unfolds it.] 
[contemplating the blank paper]. There's nothing written on this. Where is the list of guns? 
 You don't mean to say that -- 
 What! 
 Madam, I consider your conduct most unpatriotic. You make bets and abuse the confidence of the hardworked officials who are doing their bit for their country whilst our gallant fellows are perishing in the trenches -- 
