 The staff 
 What I say. There ain't anybody else. At the front. Over age. Fifty-seven. I have volunteered. They said they wouldn't have me if I was given away with a pound of tea. Told me to go home and not be an old silly. 
 Here. Me. You may drop the Horatio Floyd. Beamish is good enough for me. It's me or nobody. And for two pins I'd chuck it. Don't you drive me too far. Old uns like me is up in the world now. What do I care about the realm? They done me out of two and seven -- Yes. The police wouldn't let me on the platform. They knew who I was. That's why they wouldn't let me up. What did you expect? You told them our gallant fellows is falling at the rate of a thousand a day in the big push. Dying for Little Pifflington, you says. Come and take their places, you says. That ain't the way to recruit. I heard you. Would have been all right if it had been the widows you wanted to get round. Afraid to fight! You should see them on a Saturday night. They got grudges again one another: how can they have grudges again the Huns that they never saw? They've no imagination: that's what it is. Bring the Huns here; and they'll quarrel with them fast enough. Yes. It has. It ain't stopped. They're busier than ever. Making small cars. The old cars only do twelve miles to the gallon. Everybody has to have a car that will do thirty-five now. There ain't no trains now. They've tore up the rails and sent them to the front. Well, we have to get about somehow. Hell -- 
 Hell, they says, is paved with good intentions. I don't mean to insinuate anything until the Defence of the Realm Act is repealed. It ain't safe. The Mayor! Where do I come in? What more can we do? We've shut up everything. The picture gallery is shut. The museum is shut. The theatres and picture shows is shut: I haven't seen a movie picture for six months. 
 I don't now, though it drove me melancholy mad at first. I was on the point of taking a pennorth of rat poison -- Because a friend advised me to take to drink instead. That saved my life, though it makes me very poor company in the mornings, as 
 I have noticed something about it in the papers. Heard you mention it once or twice, now I come to think of it. What are they dying for? To keep me alive, ain't it? Well, what's the good of that if I'm dead of hunger by the time they come back? Not half, they ain't. Where's the baker's sacrifice? Where's the coal merchant's? Where's the butcher's? Charging me double: that's how they sacrifice themselves. Well, I want to sacrifice myself that way too. Just double next Saturday: double and not a penny less; or no secretary for you 
 Who are you calling a pro-German? Are you engaged? 
 A regular marchioness, if you ask me. A human chrysanthemum, sir, believe me. Ain't it? You just wait till you see her. 
 Here she is. 
 They've passed me. The recruiting officer come for me. I've had my two and seven. He said that now you was on the job we'd want another million men, and he was going to take the old-age pensioners or anyone he could get. No. I come because the waiter from the hotel brought this paper. You left it on the coffeeroom breakfast-table this morning. 
 He says he thinks this is the envelope belonging to it. Am I to give the waiter anything; or will you do it yourself? No: the one that calls hisself a Swiss. Shouldn't wonder if he'd made a copy of that paper. 
 I dunno what you mean. Now look here. I ain't going to argue with you -- I'll have the law of you for this, I will. What did you ring for? 
 Don't you come nigh me or I'll split your head with this poker, thick as it is. She's gone. She run out like a rabbit. I ask myself why was she in such a hurry? LADY'S VOICE 
 Lord Augustus. Lord Augustus. She's calling you. 
 Yes, ma'am? Here I am, ma'am. What is it, ma'am? Wants me to witness that she got clean away into the street! 
 I don't think I'm awake. This is a dream of a movie picture, this is. 
 Ha ha! Ha ha ha! Ha! 
