 The staff [a slight impediment in his speech adds to the impression of incompetence produced by his age and appearance]. 
 What I say. There ain't anybody else. 
 At the front. 
 Over age. Fifty-seven. 
 I have volunteered. 
 They said they wouldn't have me if I was given away with a pound of tea. Told me to go home and not be an old silly. [A sense of unbearable wrong, till now only smouldering in him, bursts into flame.] Young Bill Knight, that I took with me, got two and sevenpence. I got nothing. Is it justice? This country is going to the dogs, if you ask me. 
 Why did they give young Bill Knight two and sevenpence, and not give me even my tram fare? Do you call that being great statesmen? As good as robbing me, I call it. 
 I'M the Secretary. I can't leave the room and send myself to you at the same time, can I? 
 [returning and bowing]. Here. Me. 
 You may drop the Horatio Floyd. Beamish is good enough for me. 
 It's me or nobody. And for two pins I'd chuck it. Don't you drive me too far. Old uns like me is up in the world now. 
 What do I care about the realm? They done me out of two and seven -- 
 Yes. 
 The police wouldn't let me on the platform. 
 They knew who I was. That's why they wouldn't let me up. 
 What did you expect? You told them our gallant fellows is falling at the rate of a thousand a day in the big push. Dying for Little Pifflington, you says. Come and take their places, you says. That ain't the way to recruit. 
 I heard you. Would have been all right if it had been the widows you wanted to get round. 
 Afraid to fight! You should see them on a Saturday night. 
 They got grudges again one another: how can they have grudges again the Huns that they never saw? They've no imagination: that's what it is. Bring the Huns here; and they'll quarrel with them fast enough. 
 Yes. 
 It has. 
 It ain't stopped. They're busier than ever. 
 Making small cars. 
 The old cars only do twelve miles to the gallon. Everybody has to have a car that will do thirty-five now. 
 There ain't no trains now. They've tore up the rails and sent them to the front. 
 Well, we have to get about somehow. 
 Hell -- 
 [explaining]. Hell, they says, is paved with good intentions. 
 I don't mean to insinuate anything until the Defence of the Realm Act is repealed. It ain't safe. 
 The Mayor! Where do I come in? 
 What more can we do? We've shut up everything. The picture gallery is shut. The museum is shut. The theatres and picture shows is shut: I haven't seen a movie picture for six months. 
[mournfully]. I don't now, though it drove me melancholy mad at first. I was on the point of taking a pennorth of rat poison -- 
 Because a friend advised me to take to drink instead. That saved my life, though it makes me very poor company in the mornings, as [hiccuping] perhaps you've noticed. 
 Well, what of it? We're at war now; and everything's changed. Besides, I should lose my job here if I stood drinking at the bar. I'm a respectable man and must buy my drink and take it home with me. And they won't serve me with less than a quart. If you'd told me before the war that I could get through a quart of whisky in a day, I shouldn't have believed you. That's the good of war: it brings out powers in a man that he never suspected himself capable of. You said so yourself in your speech last night. 
 You can't have no rolls. The only baker that baked rolls was a Hun; and he's been interned. 
 There was. But he was caught spying; and they took him up to London and shot him. 
 Well, it stands to reason if the Germans wanted to spy they wouldn't employ a German that everybody would suspect, don't it? 
 Not as a general thing I wouldn't say it; but there's men here would sell their own mothers for two coppers if they got the chance. 
 It wasn't me that let Little Pifflington get foul. I don't belong to the governing classes. I only tell you why you can't have no rolls. 
 One of the street sweepers used to teach in the school until it was shut up for the sake of economy. Will he do? 
 We have to. We dropped it for a while; but the infant death rate went up something frightful. 
 If you want soldiers you must have children. You can't buy em in boxes, like toy soldiers. 
 Our orders from the Minister of Munitions is to use gas instead of coal, because it saves material. Which is it to be? 
 Yes: I want a rise. 
[feebly ironical]. I have noticed something about it in the papers. Heard you mention it once or twice, now I come to think of it. 
 What are they dying for? To keep me alive, ain't it? Well, what's the good of that if I'm dead of hunger by the time they come back? 
 Not half, they ain't. Where's the baker's sacrifice? Where's the coal merchant's? Where's the butcher's? Charging me double: that's how they sacrifice themselves. Well, I want to sacrifice myself that way too. Just double next Saturday: double and not a penny less; or no secretary for you [he stiffens himself shakily, and makes resolutely for the door.] 
[rushing back and facing him]. Who are you calling a pro-German? 
 Are you engaged? [His manner is strangely softened.] 
 That ain't what I mean. Can you see a female? 
 You don't seem to follow me, somehow. There's a female downstairs: what you might call a lady. She wants to know can you see her if I let her up. 
 I'll ask her to explain her business to me. I ain't above talking to a handsome young female when I get the chance [going]. 
 A regular marchioness, if you ask me. 
 A human chrysanthemum, sir, believe me. 
 Ain't it? You just wait till you see her. [He goes out.] Augustus produces a mirror, a comb, and a pot of moustache pomade from the drawer of the writing-table, and sits down before the mirror to put some touches to his toilet. The clerk returns, devotedly ushering a very attractive lady, brilliantly dressed. She has a dainty wallet hanging from her wrist. Augustus hastily covers up his toilet apparatus with The Morning Post, and rises in an attitude of pompous condescension. 
[to Augustus]. Here she is. [To the lady.] May I offer you a chair, lady? [He places a chair at the writing-table opposite Augustus, and steals out on tiptoe.] 
 [coming to the table and exhibiting his uniform to both]. They've passed me. The recruiting officer come for me. I've had my two and seven. 
 He said that now you was on the job we'd want another million men, and he was going to take the old-age pensioners or anyone he could get. 
 No. I come because the waiter from the hotel brought this paper. You left it on the coffeeroom breakfast-table this morning. 
[proffering the envelope]. He says he thinks this is the envelope belonging to it. 
 Am I to give the waiter anything; or will you do it yourself? 
 No: the one that calls hisself a Swiss. Shouldn't wonder if he'd made a copy of that paper. 
[stolidly]. I dunno what you mean. 
 Now look here. I ain't going to argue with you -- 
 I'll have the law of you for this, I will. 
 What did you ring for? [Augustus hastily drops the mirror]. Don't you come nigh me or I'll split your head with this poker, thick as it is. 
 She's gone. She run out like a rabbit. I ask myself why was she in such a hurry? LADY'S VOICE [from the street]. Lord Augustus. Lord Augustus. 
 She's calling you. 
[rushing to the window and putting down the poker]. Yes, ma'am? Here I am, ma'am. What is it, ma'am? 
 Wants me to witness that she got clean away into the street! 
[breaking the painful silence]. I don't think I'm awake. This is a dream of a movie picture, this is. 
[laughing slowly and laboriously, with intense enjoyment]. Ha ha! Ha ha ha! Ha! [Augustus rushes at him; he snatches up the poker and stands on guard.] No you don't. 
 Hear! hear! 
