 
 Are you Lord Augustus Highcastle? 
 The great Lord Augustus? 
 What a beautiful voice you have! Please go on. You express yourself so wonderfully! I never read the Radical papers. All I can tell you is that what we women admire in you is not the politician, but the man of action, the heroic warrior, the beau sabreur. Oh, I know I know. How shamefully you have been treated! what ingratitude! But the country is with you. The women are with you. Oh, do you think all our hearts did not throb and all our nerves thrill when we heard how, when you were ordered to occupy that terrible quarry in Hulluch, and you swept into it at the head of your men like a sea-god riding on a tidal wave, you suddenly sprang over the top shouting "To Berlin! Forward!"; dashed at the German army single-handed; and were cut off and made prisoner by the Huns. You don't say so! How thrilling! How simple! And how tragic! But you will forgive England? Remember: England! Forgive her. You have relatives at the Foreign Office, have you not? Has the Foreign Office warned you that you are being pursued by a female spy who is determined to obtain possession of a certain list of gun emplacements? 
 Is it? Who told you? Was it one of your German brothers-in-law? Nobody knows that better than I. Wait until you hear what I have come to tell you: you will understand me as no one else could. Listen. This spy, this woman -- She is a German. A Hun. She is my sister-in-law. Need I add that she is my bitterest enemy? Quite so. Well, she is an intimate friend of your brother at the War Office, Hungerford Highcastle, Blueloo as you call him, I don't know why. Oh, indeed: I didn't know. Well, Blueloo is simply infatuated with my sister-in-law; and he has rashly let out to her that this list is in your possession. He forgot himself because he was in a towering rage at its being entrusted to you: his language was terrible. He ordered all the guns to be shifted at once. I can't imagine. But this I know. She made a bet with him that she would come down here and obtain possession of that list and get clean away into the street with it. He took the bet on condition that she brought it straight back to him at the War Office. Oh, impossible! He is jealous of your intellect. The bet is an insult to you: don't you feel that? After what you have done for our country -- You feel sure you will be able to resist the siren? I warn you, she is very fascinating. I feel that. But if she fails to seduce you -- 
 Then you think this list of gun emplacements doesn't matter!! And you might lose your post. Of course. Of course not. Who does? It would never do. Oh never, never. 
 Lucy's Last Letter! What a title for a picture play! 
 It is really almost illegible. I think the beginning is meant for "Dearest Gus." 
 "What a"--"what a"--oh yes: "what a forgetful old"--something--"you are!" I can't make out the word. I think so. At all events it begins with a B. 
 It is the list. Good heavens! 
 Yes! Addressed to you, Lord Augustus! 
 No no. Oh, please, no. 
 Stop. Remember: if there should be an inquiry, you must be able to swear that you never showed that list to a mortal soul. I am not. I couldn't bear to look at it. One of my dearest friends was blown to pieces by an aircraft gun; and since then I have never been able to think of one without horror. Ah! 
 And now, Lord Augustus, I have taken up too much of your valuable time. Goodbye. You are so busy. I must, really. I have done my business very satisfactorily. Thank you ever so much 
 No, thanks: I prefer walking. Goodbye. Again, many, many thanks. She goes out. Augustus returns to the writing-table smiling, and takes another look at himself in the mirror. The clerk returns, with his head bandaged, carrying a poker. Is the clerk there? Yes. I want you to witness that I got clean away into the street. I am coming up now. The two men stare at one another. May I use your telephone? The War Office, please. If you will be so good. Blueloo. 
 Is that Blueloo?... Do you recognize my voice?... I've won our bet.... 
 Yes: I have the list in my wallet.... 
 Yes: I got clean into the street with it. I have a witness. I could have got to London with it. Augustus won't deny it.... 
 Oh, it was quite easy. I said I was my sister-in-law and that I was a Hun. He lapped it up like a kitten.... 
 I got hold of the list for a moment and changed it for a piece of paper out of his stationery rack: it was quite easy 
 
 Sh-sh-sh-sh-sh!!! 
