 Faith, no way at all. On the drag, on the drag; striving to put the bad times over me. The wife that is gone visiting to Tubber, and that has the door locked till such time as she will come back on the train. And I thought this shed a place where no bad thing would be apt to happen me, and not to be going through the streets, and the darkness falling. Everything that is bad, the falling sickness--God save the mark--or the like, should be at its worst at the full moon. I suppose because it is the leader of the stars. There might. Look at Matt Finn, the coffin-maker, put his hand on a cage the circus brought, and the lion took and tore it till they stuck him with a fork you'd rise dung with, and at that he let it drop. And that was a man had never quitted Cloon. It isn't to the train I would be trusting anything I would have to sell, where it might be thrown off the track. And where would be the use sending the couple of little lambs I have? It is likely there is no one would ask me where was I going. When the weight is not in them, they won't carry the price. Sure, the grass I have is no good, but seven times worse than the road. Ah, there won't be many in it, I'm thinking. There isn't a hungrier village in Connacht, they were telling me, and it's poor the look of it as well. The sort that will be in it will be a bad sort--sievemakers and tramps and neuks. You are apt to be going there on the train, I suppose? It is well to be you, Mr. Halvey, having a good place in the town, and the price of your fare, and maybe six times the price of it, in your pocket. It's as good for him to have a woman will keep the door open before him and his victuals ready and a quiet tongue in her head. Not like that little Tartar of my own. 
 It might chance to be some prisoner they would be bringing to the train. Nothing at all to see. It would be best for us to have stopped where we were. 
 Will you tighten the knots I have tied, Peter Tannian! I am in dread they might slacken or fail. It would seem to be putting very wild unruly thoughts a-through me, stirring up whatever spleen or whatever relics was left in me by the nature of the dog. There does great strength come at the time the wits would be driven out of a person. I never was handled by a policeman--but once--and never hit a blow on any man. I would not wish to destroy my neighbour or to have his blood on my hands. The way I have this fixed, there is no person will be the worse for me. I to rush down the street and to meet with my most enemy in some lonesome craggy place, it would fail me, and I thrusting for it to scatter any share of poison in his body or to sink my teeth in his skin. I wouldn't wonder I to have hung for some of you, and that plan not to have come into my head. 
 
 He went very near to tear us all asunder. I declare I amn't worth a match. 
