 Faith, no way at all. On the drag, on the drag; striving to put the bad times over me. 
 The wife that is gone visiting to Tubber, and that has the door locked till such time as she will come back on the train. And I thought this shed a place where no bad thing would be apt to happen me, and not to be going through the streets, and the darkness falling. 
 Everything that is bad, the falling sickness--God save the mark--or the like, should be at its worst at the full moon. I suppose because it is the leader of the stars. 
 There might. Look at Matt Finn, the coffin-maker, put his hand on a cage the circus brought, and the lion took and tore it till they stuck him with a fork you'd rise dung with, and at that he let it drop. And that was a man had never quitted Cloon. 
 It isn't to the train I would be trusting anything I would have to sell, where it might be thrown off the track. And where would be the use sending the couple of little lambs I have? It is likely there is no one would ask me where was I going. When the weight is not in them, they won't carry the price. Sure, the grass I have is no good, but seven times worse than the road. 
 Ah, there won't be many in it, I'm thinking. There isn't a hungrier village in Connacht, they were telling me, and it's poor the look of it as well.
 The sort that will be in it will be a bad sort--sievemakers and tramps and neuks.
 You are apt to be going there on the train, I suppose? It is well to be you, Mr. Halvey, having a good place in the town, and the price of your fare, and maybe six times the price of it, in your pocket.
 It's as good for him to have a woman will keep the door open before him and his victuals ready and a quiet tongue in her head. Not like that little Tartar of my own. _Mrs.Broderick_. And an educated woman along with that. A man of his sort, going to be Clerk of the Union and to be taken up with books and papers, it's likely he'd die in a week, he to marry a dunce.
 So it's likely he would. _Mrs.Broderick:_ A little shop they are saying she will take, for to open a flour store, and you to be keeping the accounts, the way you would not spend any waste time.
 I never would wish to be put within a madhouse before I'd die.
 Squeals you would hear from it, they were telling me, like you'd hear at the ringing of the pigs. Savages with whips beating them the same as hounds. You would not stand and listen to them for a hundred sovereigns. Of all bad things that can come upon a man, it is certain the madness is the last.
 _(Going to door.)_ It might chance to be some prisoner they would be bringing to the train.
 Nothing at all to see. It would be best for us to have stopped where we were. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Running like foals to see it, and nothing to be in it worth while.
 Near knocked us they did, and they coming round the corner of the wall.
 They are more watchful over them than they used. But all the same, you to see a strange dog afar off, you would be uneasy, thinking it might be yourself he would be searching out as his prey. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Sure, there did a dog go mad through Galway, and the whole town rose against him, and flocked him into a corner, and shot him there. He did no harm after, he being made an end of at the first. 
 So he would too. Sure, when a mad dog would be going about, on horseback or wherever you are, you're ruined.
 It is likely he will do great destruction. I wouldn't say but I felt the weight of him and his two paws around my neck.
 When the master in the school where I was went queer, he beat me with two clean rods, and wrote my name with my own blood. _Mrs.Broderick:_ To take the shoe off their foot, and to hit out right and left with it, bawling their life out, tearing their clothes, scattering and casting them in every part; or to run naked through the town, and all the people after them. 
 I'm in dread it is I myself has got the venom into my blood.
 It's a sort of a thing would be apt to happen me, and any malice to fall within the town at all. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Give heed to him, HyacinthHalvey; you are the most man we have to baffle any wrong thing coming in our midst!
 Some sort of a little catch I'm thinking there is in under my knee. I would feel no pain unless I would turn it contrary.
 I am feeling as if the five fingers of my hand to be lessening from me, the same as five farthing dips the heat of the sun would be sweating the tallow from.
 And a sort of a megrim in my head, the same as a sheep would get a fit of staggers in a field.
 There is, there is, as if I would hear voices would be talking.
 I would indeed, and there to be an enemy upon my path. Would you say now, Widow Broderick, am I getting anyway flushy in the face? _Mrs.Broderick:_ Don't leave your eye off him for pity's sake. He is reddening as red as a rose.
 I could as if walk on the wind with lightness. Something that is rising in my veins the same as froth would be rising on a pint.
 There are three thoughts going through my mind--to hang myself or to drown myself, or to cut my neck with a reaping-hook. _Mrs.Broderick:_ It is the doctor will serve him best, where it is the mad blood that should be bled away. To break up eggs, the white of them, in a tin can, will put new blood in him, and whiskey, and to taste no food through twenty-one days.
 I'm thinking so long a fast wouldn't serve me. I wouldn't wish the lads will bear my body to the grave, to lay down there was nothing within it but a grasshopper or a wisp of dry grass. 
 Isn't it enough to have madness before me, that you will not let me go fall in my own choice place?
 Is it to shoot me you are going?
 I will not go in it! It is likely I might be forgot in it, or the nurses to be in dread to bring me nourishment, and they to hear me barking within the door. I'm thinking it was allotted by nature I never would die an easy death.
 Where's the use of that the time the breath will be gone out of me, and you maybe playing cards on my coffin, and I having nothing around or about me but the shroud, and the habit, and the little board?
 It is what I ever and always heard, a dog to bite you, all you have to do is to take a pinch of its hair and to lay it into the wound. _Mrs.Broderick:_ So I heard that myself. A dog to bite any person he is entitled to be plucked of his hair.
 Do not ask her! I will not leave it to her! _Mrs.Broderick:_ Sure, she cannot say more than what yourself has said against yourself.
 I'm in dread she might know too much, and be telling out what is within in my mind.
 Is a man having a wife and three acres of land to be put under the judgment of a witch?
 I will not give in to going to demons or druids or freemasons! Wasn't there enough of misfortune set before my path through every day of my lifetime without it to be linked with me after my death? Is it that you would force me to lose the comforts of heaven and to get the poverty of hell? I tell you I will have no trade with witches! I would sooner go face the featherbeds.
 Where is that dog presently, till some person might go pluck out a few ribs of its hair?
 Don't let in the rays of it upon us or I'm a gone man. It to shine on them that are going wrong in the head, it would raise a great stir in the mind. Sure, it's in the asylum at that time they do have whips to chastise them. _(Goes to corner.)_
 Will you tighten the knots I have tied, Peter Tannian! I am in dread they might slacken or fail. 
 It would seem to be putting very wild unruly thoughts a-through me, stirring up whatever spleen or whatever relics was left in me by the nature of the dog.
 There does great strength come at the time the wits would be driven out of a person. I never was handled by a policeman--but once--and never hit a blow on any man. I would not wish to destroy my neighbour or to have his blood on my hands. 
 The way I have this fixed, there is no person will be the worse for me. I to rush down the street and to meet with my most enemy in some lonesome craggy place, it would fail me, and I thrusting for it to scatter any share of poison in his body or to sink my teeth in his skin. I wouldn't wonder I to have hung for some of you, and that plan not to have come into my head. _(Whistle of train heard.)_
 _(Taking off crate.)_ He went very near to tear us all asunder. I declare I amn't worth a match. _Mrs.Broderick:_ He made a reel in my head, till I don't know am I right myself. 
 He poured all over with pure white foam.
