 Give me a charity now, the way I'll be keeping a little rag on me and a little shoe to my foot. Give me the price of tobacco and the price of a grain of tea; for tobacco is blessed and tea is good for the head. 
 Leave him a while. His song that does be clogged through the daytime, the same as the sight is clogged with myself. It isn't but in the night time I can see anything worth while. Davy is a proper boy, a proper boy; let you leave Davy alone. It was himself came before me ere yesterday in the morning, and I walking out the madhouse door. 
 Waiting before me he was, and no one to give him knowledge unless it might be the Big Man. I give you my word he near ate the face off me. As glad to see me he was as if I had dropped from heaven. Come hither to me, Davy, and give no heed to them. It is as dull and as lagging as themselves you would be maybe, and the world to be different and the moon to change its courses with the sun.
 Sorry they were losing me. There was not a better prisoner in it than my own four bones.
 What way could you make friends with people would be always talking? Too much of talk and of noise there was in it, cursing, and praying, and tormenting; some dancing, some singing, and one writing a letter to a she devil called Lucifer. I not to close my ears, I would have lost the sound of Davideen's song.
 I was my seven months in it, my seven months and a day. My good clothes that went astray on me and my boots. My fine gaudy dress was all moth-eated, that was worked with the wings of birds. To fall into dust and ashes it did, and the wings rose up into the high air. _BartleyFallon_. Take care would the madness catch on to ourselves the same as the chin-cough or the pock. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Ah, that's not the way it goes travelling from one to another, but some that are naturally cracked and inherit it. 
 Ha! ha! ha!
 Ha! ha! ha! It is a very laughable thing now, the third most laughable thing I ever met with in my lifetime.
 A fine young man to be shut up and bound in a narrow little shed, and the full moon rising, and I knowing what I know!
 Tambourines and fiddles and pipes--melodeons and the whistling of drums.
 Sitting within walls, and a top-coat wrapped around him, and mirth and music and frolic being in the place we know, and some dancing sets on the floor.
 _(Jumping up excitedly.)_ That mad dog, he is a Dublin dog; he is betune you and Belfast--he is running ahead--you couldn't keep up with him.
 There is police after him, but they cannot come up with him; he destroyed a splendid sow; nine bonavs they buried or less. 
 He made off towards Craughwell, and he bit a fine young man.
 That dog is going on all the time; he wouldn't stop, but go ahead and bring that mouthful with him. He is still on the road; he is keeping the middle of the road; they say he is as big as a calf.
 The motor cars is going to get out to track him, for fear he would destroy the world! _Mrs.Broderick:_ That is a very nice thought now, to be sending the motor cars after him to overturn and to crush him the same as an ass-car in their path.
 You can't save yourself from a dog; he is after his own equals, dogs. He is doing every harm. They are out night and day. 
 He won't stay in this country down--he goes the straight road--he takes by the wind. He is as big as a yearling calf. _Mrs.Broderick:_ I wouldn't ever forgive myself I to see him.
 He is not very heavy yet. There is only the relics in him.
 The police is afraid of their life. They wrote for motor cars to follow him. Sure, he'd destroy the beasts of the field. A milch cow, he to grab at her, she's settled. Terrible wicked he is; he's as big as five dogs, and he does be very strong. I hope in the Lord he'll be caught. It will be a blessing from the Almighty God to kill that dog.
 _(With a cackle of delight.)_ Give heed to them now, Davideen! That's the way the crazed people used to be going on in the place where I was, every one thinking the other to be cracked.
 Every day in the year there comes some malice into the world, and where it comes from is no good place. _Mrs.Broderick:_ That is it, a venomous dew, as in the year of the famine. There is no astronomer can say it is from the earth or the sky.
 That was settled in Mayo two thousand years ago. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Ah, there's no head or tail to that one's story. You 'd be left at the latter end the same as at the commencement.
 It will go in the wind, there is a certain time for that. It might go off in the wind again. It might go shaping off and do no harm.
 Raging ever and always it is, raging wild. Sure, that is a dog was in it before the foundations of the world.
 It is the full moon knows that. The moon to slacken it is safe, there is no harm in it. Almighty God will do that much. He'll slacken it like you 'd slacken lime. 
 That's it. The moon is terrible. The full moon cracks them out and out, any one that would have any spleen or any relics in them. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Do not let in the light of it. I would scruple to look at it myself.
 Let you throw open the door, Davideen. It is not ourselves are in dread that the white man in the sky will be calling names after us and ridiculing us. Ha! ha! I might be as foolish as yourselves and as fearful, but for the Almighty that left a little cleft in my skull, that would let in His candle through the night time.
 _(Putting her hand on him.)_ There was great shouting in the big round house, and you coming into it last night.
 We were talking of it a while ago. I knew you by the smile and by the laugh of you. A queen having a yellow dress, and the hair on her smooth like marble. All the dead of the village were in it, and of the living myself and yourself.
 You have the door open--the speckled horses are on the road!--make a leap on the horse as it goes by, the horse that is without a rider. Can't you hear them puffing and roaring? Their breath is like a fog upon the air.
 Make a snap at the bridle as it passes by the bush in the western gap. Run out now, run, where you have the bare ridge of the world before you, and no one to take orders from but yourself, maybe, and God.
 Stop where you are, so. In my opinion it is little difference the moon can see between the whole of ye. Come on, Davideen, come out now, we have the wideness of the night before us. O golden God! All bad things quieten in the night time, and the ugly thing itself will put on some sort of a decent face! Come out now to the night that will give you the song, and will show myself out as beautiful as Helen of the Greek gods, that hanged herself the day there first came a wrinkle on her face! _Davideen: _(Coming close, and taking her hand as he sings.)_ Oh! don't you remember What our comrades called to us And they footing steps At the call of the moon? Come out to the rushes, Come out to the bushes, Where the music is called By the lads of Queen Anne! _(They look beautiful. They dance and sing in perfect time as they go out.)_ _PeterTannian: _(Closing the door, and pointing at Hyacinth, who stands gazing after them, and when the door is shut sits down thinking deeply.)_ It is on him her judgment fell, and a clear judgment. 
