 To-morrow the fair day of Carrow? I was not remembering that.
 To-morrow the fair day. There will be all sorts in the streets to-night.
 The tents on the fair green; there will be music in it; there was a fiddler having no legs would set men of threescore years and of fourscore years dancing. I can nearly hear his tune. _(He whistles_ "The Heather Broom.")
 I didn't think of that. I wonder could I go--for one night only--and see what the lads are doing. 
 So I can meet him, and get in the train after him getting out. _(Mrs.Broderick and PeterTannian come in.)_ _Mrs.Broderick:_ Is that Mr. Halvey is in it? I was looking for you at the chapel as I passed, and the Angelus bell after ringing.
 Business I have here, ma'am. I was in dread I might not be here before the train. _Mrs.Broderick:_ So you might not, indeed. That nine o'clock train you can never trust it to be late.
 To meet Father Gregan I am come, and maybe to go on myself. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Sure, I knew well you would be in haste to be before Father Gregan, and we knowing what we know.
 I have no business only to be showing respect to him. 
 I don't know what you are talking about. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Didn't you hear the news, PeterTannian, that Mr. Halvey is apt to be linked and joined in marriage with MissJoyce, the priest's housekeeper?
 It is not so settled as that. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Why wouldn't it be settled and it being told at Mrs. Delane's and through the whole world?
 I have no mind to be settling myself down yet a while. I might maybe take a ramble here or there. There's many of my comrades in the States. _Mrs.Broderick:_ To go away from Cloon, is it? And why would you think to do that, and the whole town the same as a father and mother to you? Sure, the sergeant would live and die with you, and there are no two from this to Galway as great as yourself and the priest. To see you coming up the street, and your Dublin top-coat around you, there are some would give you a salute the same nearly as the Bishop.
 What things?
 I had plenty of places. Giving out proclamations--attending waterworks -. _Mrs.Broderick:_ It is well fitted for any place he is, and all that was written around him and he coming into Cloon.
 Do you think now, ma'am, would it be any harm I to go spend a day or maybe two days out of this--I to go on the train -.
 Who is it is in it? _(Sound of discordant singing outside.)_
 I never saw her, I think. 
 There is a lad along with her. 
 There are some say it is the moon. 
 It is likely it is put in the sky the same as a clock for our use, the way you would pick knowledge of the weather, the time the stars would be wild about it. _Mrs.Broderick:_ That is very nice now. The thing you'd know, you'd like to go on, and to hear more or less about it.
 No way at all, I'm thinking, unless there would be a miracle worked by the moon. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Ah, miracles is gone out of the world this long time, with education, unless that they might happen in your own inside.
 What is that now? 
 What is it you are laughing at?
 What is that?
 It's little you are likely to know about me.
 I suppose it is the Carrow fair you are talking about.
 I wish I wasn't in this place tonight. I would like well to be going on the train, if it wasn't for the talk the neighbours would be making. I would like well to slip away. It is a long time I am going without any sort of funny comrades. _(Goes to door. The others enter quickly, pushing him back.)_
 What was it was in it? 
 Is it that it was a mad dog?
 There is one, so, mad upon the road.
 It is the police I have a right to forewarn to go after him.
 They have a right to bring their rifles in their hand.
 He is surely the one is raging through the street.
 I will go out following him. 
 I'll go. He might do some injury going through the town. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Ah now, it is not yourself we would let go into danger! It is PeterTannian should go, if any person should go.
 Stop your lies and your chat! _Mrs.Broderick:_ _(to Tannian_)_ You are going light in the head to talk that way. 
 So he might, and he having a sort of a little rent in his sleeve.
 So I would make a report.
 To be giddy in the head is a sign, and to be talking of things that passed years ago.
 To steal prayer-books and rosaries, and to be saying prayers they never could keep in mind before. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Very strong, that they could leap a wall--jumping and pushing and kicking--or to tie people to one another with a rope. 
 _(To Tannian.)_ Look now at your great figuring! Argus with his hundred eyes wouldn't know is that a nought or is it a nine without a tail.
 What makes you think that?
 Is it that you are feeling any pain as of a wound or a sore?
 What class of feeling would you say you are feeling?
 That is a strange account.
 That is what I would look for. Is there some sort of a roaring in your ear?
 Would you feel any wish to go tearing and destroying?
 It is the doctor I'd best call for--and maybe the sergeant and the priest.
 I'd be loth he to be shot or smothered. I'd sooner to give him a chance in the asylum. _Mrs.Broderick:_ To keep him there and to try him through three changes of the moon. It's well for you, Bartley, Mr. Halvey being in charge of you, that is known to be a tender man.
 It is a pity there to be no cure found for it in the world. 
 Stop where you are.
 The neighbours would think it bad of me to let a raving man out into their midst.
 I will call to the doctor to say is the padded room at the workhouse the most place where you will be safe, till such time as it will be known did the poison wear away.
 I will keep a watch over you myself.
 Sure, I cannot leave you the way you are.
 I'll go out; I might chance to see him. _Mrs.Broderick:_ You will not, without getting advice from the priest that is coming in the train. Let his Reverence come into this place, and say is it Bartley or is it PeterTannian was done destruction on by the dog. 
 Come hither, Mary, and tell us is there any one of your own sort in this shed? _Mrs.Broderick:_ That is a good thought. It is only themselves that recognise one another.
 That's foolishness. These are not the ancient times, when Ireland was full of haunted people.
 I would not give in to any pagan thing, but to recognise one of her own sort, that is a thing can be understood. _Mrs.Broderick:_ So it could be too, the same as witnesses in a court.
 Say out, girl, do you see any craziness here or anything of the sort?
 It is what we are asking you, did any of that malice get its scope in this place?
 That dog you were talking of, that is raging through the district and the town--did it leave any madness after it?
 Hurry on now, tell us is there any one in this place is wild and astray like yourself. _(He opens the door. The light falls on him.)_
 What are you saying? I never went frolicking in the night time since the day I came into Cloon.
 I thought it was of Carrow she was talking; it is of the other world she is raving, and of the shadow-shapes of the forth.
 What you hear is but the train puffing afar off.
 Ah, what way can I run to any place!
 There is a thought in my mind. I think it was coming this good while. 
 I made a great mistake coming into this place.
 It is foolishness kept me in it ever since. It is too big a name was put upon me.
 Every person in the town giving me out for more than I am. I got too much of that in the heel. 
 Calling to me every little minute--expecting me to do this thing and that thing--watching me the same as a watchdog, their eyes as if fixed upon my face. _Mrs.Broderick:_ To be giving out such strange thoughts, he hasn't much brains left around him.
 I_ looking to be Clerk of the Union, and the place I had giving me enough to do, and too much to do. Tied on this side, tied on that side. I to be bothered with business through the holy livelong day!
 In danger to be linked and wed--I never ambitioned it--with a woman would want me to be earning through every day of the year. 
 The wide ridge of the world before me, and to have no one to look to for orders; that would be better than roast and boiled and all the comforts of the day. I declare to goodness, and I 'd nearly take my oath, I 'd sooner be among a fleet of tinkers, than attending meetings of the Board! _Mrs.Broderick:_ If there are fairies in it, it is in the fairies he is.
 _(Getting up.)_ I have my mind made up, I am going out of this on that train.
 Let you mind your own business.
 _(Throwing off top-coat.)_ You cannot keep me here.
 Is it out of your senses you are gone?
 Let me go out of this!
 Let me go, or I'll tear the heart out of ye! 
 Mad, am I? Bit by a dog, am I? You'll see am I mad! I'll show madness to you! Let go your hold or I'll skin you! I'll destroy you! I'll bite you! I'm a red enemy to the whole of you! Leave go your grip! Yes, I'm mad! Bow wow wow, wow wow! _(They let go and fall back in terror, and he rushes out of the door.)_
