 I to believe all the lies I'd hear, I'd be a racked man by this. _Mrs.Broderick:_ What I say now is as true as if you were on the other side of me. I suppose now the priest is come home there'll be no delay getting the license.
 She should be a steady wife for him--a fortied girl. 
 They wouldn't do that maybe and they hearing things as I heard them.
 There was a herd passing through from Carrow. It is what I heard him saying _Mrs.Broderick:_ You heard nothing of Mr. Halvey, but what is worthy of him. But that's the way always. The most thing a man does, the less he will get for it after.
 A grand place in Carrow I suppose you had?
 Writing is easy. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Look at him since he was here, this twelvemonth back, that he never went into a dance-house or stood at a cross-road, and never lost a half-an-hour with drink. Made no blunder, made no rumours. Whatever could be said of his worth, it could not be too well said.
 It is tea-drinking does it, and that is the reason it is on the wife it is apt to fall for the most part. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Ah, there's some does be thinking their wives isn't right, and there's others think they are too right. There to be any fear of me going astray, I give you my word I'd lose my wits on the moment.
 No, but some lads that are running. _(They go out. H.H. is going too, but Mrs.Broderick goes before him and turns him round in doorway.)_ _Mrs.Broderick:_ Don't be coming out now in the dust that was formed by the heat is in the breeze. It would be a pity to spoil your Dublin coat, or your shirt that is that white you would nearly take it to be blue. _(She goes out, pushing him in and shutting door after her.)_
 Ah, what mad? Mad dogs are done away with now by the head Government and muzzles and the police.
 Why wouldn't he be him? Is it likely there would be two of them in it at the one time? 
 I would say him to be about the size of the foal of a horse. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Didn't he behave well not to do ourselves an injury?
 Is it HyacinthHalvey you are taking to be so far before myself? _Mrs.Broderick:_ Why wouldn't he be before you?
 Ask him what was he in Carrow? Ask was he a sort of a corner-boy, ringing the bell, pumping water, gathering a few coppers in the daytime for to scatter on a game of cards.
 I to have got a bite from the dog, is it? I did not come anear him at all. You to strip me as bare as winter you will not find the track of his teeth. It is ShawnEarly was nearer to him than what I was. 
 Is it that you lay down you can see signs? Is that the learning they were giving you in Carrow? _Mrs.Broderick:_ Don't be speaking with him at all. It is easy know the signs. A person to be laughing and mocking, and that would not have the same habits with yourself, or to have no fear of things you would be in dread of, or to be using a different class of food.
 I use no food but clean food.
 I am talking of nothing but the thing I have a right to talk of. _Mrs.Broderick:_ To be nervous and thinking and pausing, and playing with knicknacks.
 It never was my habit to be playing with knicknacks.
 Is it myself you are thinking to put under restraint? Would a man would be pushing and kicking and tearing his clothes, be able to do arithmetic on a board? Look now at that. _(Chalks figures on door.)_ Three and three makes six!--and three -- _Mrs.Broderick:_ I'm no hand at figuring, but I can say out a blessed hymn, what any person with the mind gone contrary in them could not do. Hearken now till you'll know is there confusion in my mind. _(Sings.)_ Mary Broderick is my name; Fiddane was my station; Cloon is my dwelling-place; And _(I hope)_ heaven is my destination. Mary Broderick is my name, Cloon was my --
 Leave that blame on a little ridge that is in the nature of the chalk. Look now at Mary Broderick, that it has failed to word out her verse. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Ah, what signifies? I'd never get light greatly. It wouldn't be worth while I to go mad. _(BartleyFallon gives a deep groan.)_ 
 Or to burn it with red-hot irons, the way it will not scatter itself and grow. There does a doctor do that out in foreign. _Mrs.Broderick:_ It would be more natural to cut the leg off him in some sort of a Christian way. 
 That is the only best thing to do. Whether the bite is from a dog, or a cat, or whatever it may be, to put the quilt and the blankets on the person and smother him in the bed. To smother them out-and-out you should, before the madness will work.
 He to have got a bite and to go biting others, he would put in them the same malice. It is the old people used to tell that down, and they must have had some reason doing that. 
 Who is it now that venom fell on, whatever beast's jaws may have scattered it?
 Did you take notice, and he coming into the shed, he had like some sort of a little twist in his walk? _Mrs.Broderick:_ I would be loth to think there would be any poison lurking in his veins. Where now would it come from, and Cracked Mary's dog being as good as no dog at all?
 It might chance, and he a child in the cradle, to get the bite of a dog. It might be only now, its full time being come, its power would begin to work. _Mrs.Broderick:_ So it would too, and he but to see the shadow of the dog bit him in a body glass, or in the waves, and he himself looking over a boat, and as if called to throw himself in the tide. But I would not have thought it of Mr. Halvey. Well, it's as hard to know what might be spreading abroad in any person's mind, as to put the body of a horse out through a cambric needle. _(Hyacinth looks at them.)_ 
 There was some mistake made anyway.
 It is the power of the moon is forcing the truth out of him.
 It is good pay he got with it. Eighty pounds a year doesn't come on the wind.
 Give me a hold of that chain. _Mrs.Broderick:_ What is it you are about to do?
 To bind him to the chair I will before he will burst out wild mad. Come over here, BartleyFallon, and lend a hand if you can. _(BartleyFallon appears from corner with a_ _chicken crate over his head.)_ _Mrs.Broderick:_ O Bartley, that is the strangest lightness ever I saw, to go bind a chicken crate around your skull!
 Is it that you think those rods, spaced wide, as they are, will keep out the moon from entering your brain?
 You are not going so easy as what you think.
 I am well able to mind it.
 Give me a hand with the chain. _(They throw it round Hyacinth and hold him.)_
 Not at all, but yourself that is gone raving mad from the fury and the strength of some dog.
 There now is an end of your elegant man. 
