 It is likely the train will not be up to its time, and cattle being on it for the fair. It's best wait in the shed. Is that BartleyFallon? What way are you, Bartley?
 Is it business with the nine o'clock you have?
 It is not long till the full moon will be rising.
 Ah, what could happen any person in the street of Cloon?
 I thought you might be sending something to the fair.
 They are saying there'll be good demand at the fair of Carrow to-morrow.
 Are you forgetting, Mr. Halvey, that you are to meet his Reverence on the platform that is coming home from drinking water at the Spa?
 His good word he will give to Mr. Halvey at the Board, where it is likely he will be made Clerk of the Union next week. _Mrs.Broderick:_ His good word he will give to another thing besides that, I am thinking.
 A very good fortune in the bank they are saying she has, and she having crossed the ocean twice to America.
 The creature, she was light this long while and not good in the head, and at the last lunacy came on her and she was tied and bound. Sometimes singing and dancing she does be, and sometimes troublesome.
 It is Davideen, her brother, that is innocent. He was left rambling from place to place the time she was put within walls. _(Cracked Mary and Davideen come in. MissJoyce clings to Hyacinth's arm.)_
 Give out now, Davideen, a verse of "The Heather Broom." That's a splendid tune. _Davideen: _(Sings.)_ Oh, don't you remember, As it's often I told you, As you passed through our kitchen, That a new broom sweeps clean? Come out now and buy one, Come out now and try one -- _(His voice cracks, and he breaks off, laughing foolishly.)_ _Mrs.Broderick:_ He has a sweet note in his voice, but to know or to understand what he is doing, he couldn't do it.
 It is often there will fiddlers be waiting to play for them coming out, that are maybe the finest dancers of the day.
 It is a family failing with her tribe. The most of them get giddy in their latter end.
 So it is too. The time the moon is going back, the blood that is in a person does be weakening, but when the moon is strong, the blood that moves strong in the same way. And it to be at the full, it drags the wits along with it, the same as it drags the tide. _Mrs.Broderick:_ Those that are light show off more and have the talk of twenty the time it is at the full, that is sure enough. And to hold up a silk handkerchief and to look through it, you would see the four quarters of the moon; I was often told that.
 _(At door.)_ Some noise as of running.
 Nothing at all but some lads that were running in pursuit of a dog.
 It might be that dog they were pursuing after was mad, on the head of being under the full moon.
 What place is he gone now?
 Sure, a mad dog would go from this to Kinvara in a half a minute, like the train.
 A queer cut of a dog he was; a lurcher, a bastard hound.
 _(Holding him)_. Oh, let you not endanger yourself! It is the peelers should go follow him, that are armed with their batons and their guns.
 He is, and queer in the mind. Take care did he get a bite from the dog, that left some venom working in his blood.
 I was not nearer, or as near as what Mrs.Broderick was. _Mrs.Broderick:_ I made away when I saw him. My chest is not the better of it yet. Since I left off fretting I got gross. I am that nervous I would run from a blessed sheep, let alone a dog. 
 To see any of the signs of madness upon him, it is Mr. Halvey the sergeant would look to for to make his report.
 To be jumping the height of trees they do be, and all the people striving to slacken them.
 Any fear of any person here being violent, Mr. Halvey will get him put under restraint.
 What is on you, Bartley?
 No, but to cut a piece out of his leg the doctor will, the way the poison will get no leave to work.
 If it was a pig was bit, or a sow or a bonav, it to show the signs, it would be shot, if it was a whole fleet of them was in it. _Mrs.Broderick:_ I knew of a man that was butler in a big house was bit, and they tied him first and smothered him after, and his master shot the dog. A splendid shot he was; the thing he'd not see he'd hit it the same as the thing he'd see. I heard that from an outside neighbour of my own, a woman that told no lies. 
 Sure, they did the same thing to a high-up lady over in England, and she after being bit by her own little spaniel and it having a ring around its neck.
 To get a bite of a dog you must chance your life. There is no doubt at all about that. It might work till the time of the new moon or the full moon, and then they must be shot or smothered.
 There never came out from the Almighty any cure for a mad dog. _(BartleyFallon has been edging towards door.)_ 
 Oh! stop him and keep a hold of him, Mr. Halvey!
 There is a surer way than that. _Mrs.Broderick:_ What way? 
 It takes madness to find out madness. Let you call to the cracked woman that should know.
 There is reason in what she is saying. Set open the door and let the full moon call its own!
 She gave out that award fair enough.
 Be quiet now, he is going to say some word.
 Whisht now and listen.
 He is talking queer now anyway.
 He is a gone man surely.
 Was there ever seen before this night such power to be in the moon!
 It is best keep out of his reach.
 Oh, he is stark, staring mad!
 To the train he is gone, and away in it he is gone.
 He is gone clean mad. Great arguing he had, and leaping and roaring.
 Bawling his life out, tearing his clothes, tearing and eating them. Look at his top-coat he left after him.
 Bit he was with the mad dog that went tearing, and lads chasing him a while ago.
