

YOUNGOFF.  I say; what's the matter?  You were crying when I spoke
to you.

GIRL.  [With a movement of recovery]  Oh!  nothing.  The beautiful
evening-that's all.

YOUNGOFF.  [Looking at her]  Cheer up!

GIRL.  [Taking of hat and veil; her hair is yellowish and crinkly]
Cheer up!  You are not lonelee, like me.

YOUNGOFF.  [Limping to the window--doubtfully]  I say, how did you
how did you get into this?  Isn't it an awfully hopeless sort of
life?

GIRL.  Yees, it ees.  You haf been wounded?

YOUNGOFF.  Just out of hospital to-day.

GIRL.  The horrible war--all the misery is because of the war.  When
will it end?

YOUNGOFF.  [Leaning against the window-sill, looking at her
attentively]  I say, what nationality are you?

GIRL.  [With a quick look and away]  Rooshian.

YOUNGOFF.  Really!  I never met a Russian girl.  [The GIRL.gives him
another quick look]  I say, is it as bad as they make out?

GIRL.  [Slipping her hand through his arm]  Not when I haf anyone as
ni-ice as you; I never haf had, though.  [She smiles, and her smile,
like her speech, is slow and confining]  You stopped because I was
sad, others stop because I am gay.  I am not fond of men at all.
When you know--you are not fond of them.

YOUNGOFF.  Well, you hardly know them at their best, do you?  You
should see them in the trenches.  By George!  They're simply
splendid--officers and men, every blessed soul.  There's never been
anything like it--just one long bit of jolly fine self-sacrifice;
it's perfectly amazing.

GIRL.  [Turning her blue-grey eyes on him]  I expect you are not the
last at that.  You see in them what you haf in yourself, I think.

YOUNGOFF.  Oh, not a bit; you're quite out!  I assure you when we
made the attack where I got wounded there wasn't a single man in my
regiment who wasn't an absolute hero.  The way they went in--never
thinking of themselves--it was simply ripping.

GIRL.  [In a queer voice]  It is the same too, perhaps, with--the
enemy.

YOUNGOFF.  Oh, yes!  I know that.

GIRL.  Ah!  You are not a mean man.  How I hate mean men!

YOUNGOFF.  Oh! they're not mean really--they simply don't
understand.

GIRL.  Oh!  You are a babee--a good babee aren't you?

     [The YOUNGOFFICER doesn't like this, and frowns.  The GIRL
     looks a little scared.]

GIRL.  [Clingingly]  But I li-ke you for it.  It is so good to find a
ni-ice man.

YOUNGOFF.  [Abruptly]  About being lonely?  Haven't you any Russian
friends?

GIRL.  [Blankly]  Rooshian?  No.  [Quickly]  The town is so beeg.
Were you at the concert before you spoke to me?

YOUNGOFF.  Yes.

GIRL.  I too.  I lofe music.

YOUNGOFF.  I suppose all Russians do.

GIRL.  [With another quick look tat him]  I go there always when I
haf the money.

YOUNGOFF.  What!  Are you as badly on the rocks as that?

GIRL.  Well, I haf just one shilling now!

     [She laughs bitterly.  The laugh upsets him; he sits on the
     window-sill, and leans forward towards her.]

YOUNGOFF.  I say, what's your name?

GIRL.  May.  Well, I call myself that.  It is no good asking yours.

YOUNGOFF.  [With a laugh]  You're a distrustful little soul; aren't
you?

GIRL.  I haf reason to be, don't you think?

YOUNGOFF.  Yes.  I suppose you're bound to think us all brutes.

GIRL.  [Sitting on a chair close to the window where the moonlight
falls on one powdered cheek]  Well, I haf a lot of reasons to be
afraid all my time.  I am dreadfully nervous now; I am not trusding
anybody.  I suppose you haf been killing lots of Germans?

YOUNGOFF.  We never know, unless it happens to be hand to hand; I
haven't come in for that yet.

GIRL.  But you would be very glad if you had killed some.

YOUNGOFF.  Oh, glad?  I don't think so.  We're all in the same boat,
so far as that's concerned.  We're not glad to kill each other--not
most of us.  We do our job--that's all.

GIRL.  Oh!  It is frightful.  I expect I haf my brothers killed.

YOUNGOFF.  Don't you get any news ever?

GIRL.  News?  No indeed, no news of anybody in my country.  I might
not haf a country; all that I ever knew is gone; fader, moder,
sisters, broders, all;  never any more I shall see them, I suppose,
now.  The war it breaks and breaks, it breaks hearts.  [She gives a
little snarl]  Do you know what I was thinking when you came up to
me?  I was thinking of my native town, and the river in the
moonlight.  If I could see it again I would be glad.  Were you ever
homeseeck?

YOUNGOFF.  Yes, I have been--in the trenches.  But one's ashamed
with all the others.

GIRL.  Ah!  Yees!  Yees!  You are all comrades there.  What is it
like for me here, do you think, where everybody hates and despises
me, and would catch me and put me in prison, perhaps.  [Her breast
heaves.]

YOUNGOFF.  [Leaning forward and patting her knee]  Sorry--sorry.

GIRL.  [In a smothered voice]  You are the first who has been kind to
me for so long!  I will tell you the truth--I am not Rooshian at all
--I am German.

YOUNGOFF.  [Staring]  My dear girl, who cares.   We aren't fighting
against women.

GIRL.  [Peering at him]  Another man said that to me.  But he was
thinkin' of his fun.  You are a veree ni-ice boy; I am so glad I met
you.  You see the good in people, don't you?  That is the first thing
in the world--because--there is really not much good in people, you
know.

YOUNGOFF.  [Smiling]  You are a dreadful little cynic!  But of
course you are!

GIRL.  Cyneec?  How long do you think I would live if I was not a
cyneec?  I should drown myself to-morrow.  Perhaps there are good
people, but, you see, I don't know them.

YOUNGOFF.  I know lots.

GIRL.  [Leaning towards him]  Well now--see, ni-ice boy--you haf
never been in a hole, haf you?

YOUNGOFF.  I suppose not a real hole.

GIRL.  No, I should think not, with your face.  Well, suppose I am
still a good girl, as I was once, you know; and you took me to your
mother and your sisters and you said: "Here is a little German girl
that has no work, and no money, and no friends."  They will say: "Oh!
how sad!  A German girl!"  And they will go and wash their hands.

     [The OFFICER, is silent, staring at her.]

GIRL.  You see.

YOUNGOFF.  [Muttering]  I'm sure there are people.

GIRL.  No.  They would not take a German, even if she was good.
Besides, I don't want to be good any more--I am not a humbug; I have
learned to be bad.  Aren't you going to kees me, ni-ice boy?

She puts her face close to his.  Her eyes trouble him; he draws back.

YOUNGOFF.  Don't.  I'd rather not, if you don't mind.  [She looks at
him fixedly, with a curious inquiring stare]  It's stupid.  I don't
know--but you see, out there, and in hospital, life's different.
It's--it's--it isn't mean, you know.  Don't come too close.

GIRL.  Oh!  You are fun----[She stops]  Doesn't it light.  No Zeps
to-night.  When they burn--what a 'orrble death!  And all the people
cheer.  It is natural.   Do you hate us veree much?

YOUNGOFF.  [Turning sharply]  Hate?  I don't know.

GIRL.  I don't hate even the English--I despise them.  I despise my
people too; even more, because they began this war.  Oh! I know that.
I despise all the peoples.  Why haf they made the world so miserable
--why haf they killed all our lives--hundreds and thousands and
millions of lives--all for noting?  They haf made a bad world--
everybody hating, and looking for the worst everywhere.  They haf
made me bad, I know.  I believe no more in anything.  What is there
to believe in?  Is there a God?  No!  Once I was teaching little
English children their prayers--isn't that funnee?  I was reading to
them about Christ and love.  I believed all those things.  Now I
believe noting at all--no one who is not a fool or a liar can
believe.  I would like to work in a 'ospital; I would like to go and
'elp poor boys like you.  Because I am a German they would throw me
out a 'undred times, even if I was good.  It is the same in Germany,
in France, in Russia, everywhere.  But do you think I will believe in
Love and Christ and God and all that--Not I!  I think we are animals
--that's all!  Oh, yes! you fancy it is because my life has spoiled
me.  It is not that at all--that is not the worst thing in life.  The
men I take are not ni-ice, like you, but it's their nature; and--they
help me to live, which is something for me, anyway.  No, it is the
men who think themselves great and good and make the  war with their
talk and their hate, killing us all--killing all the boys like you,
and keeping poor People in prison, and telling us to go on hating;
and all these dreadful cold-blood creatures who write in the papers
--the same in my country--just the same; it is because of all of them
that I think we are only animals.

     [The YOUNGOFFICER gets up, acutely miserable.]

     [She follows him with her eyes.]

GIRL.  Don't mind me talkin', ni-ice boy.  I don't know anyone to
talk to.  If you don't like it, I can be quiet as a mouse.

YOUNGOFF.  Oh, go on!  Talk away; I'm not obliged to believe you,
and I don't.

     [She, too, is on her feet now, leaning against the wall; her
     dark dress and white face just touched by the slanting
     moonlight.  Her voice comes again, slow and soft and bitter.]

GIRL.  Well, look here, ni-ice boy, what sort of world is it, where
millions are being tortured, for no fault of theirs, at all?  A
beautiful world, isn't it?  'Umbog!  Silly rot, as you boys call it.
You say it is all "Comrades" and braveness out there at the front,
and people don't think of themselves.  Well, I don't think of myself
veree much.  What does it matter?  I am lost now, anyway.  But I
think of my people at 'ome; how they suffer and grieve.  I think of
all the poor people there, and here, how lose those they love, and
all the poor prisoners.  Am I not to think of them?  And if I do, how
am I to believe it a beautiful world, ni-ice boy?

     [He stands very still, staring at her.]

GIRL.  Look here!  We haf one life each, and soon it is over.  Well,
I think that is lucky.

YOUNGOFF.  No!  There's more than that.

GIRL.  [Softly]  Ah!  You think the war is fought for the future; you
are giving your lives for a better world, aren't you?

YOUNGOFF.  We must fight till we win.

GIRL.  Till you win.  My people think that too.  All the peoples
think that if they win the world will be better.  But it will not,
you know; it will be much worse, anyway.

     [He turns away from her, and catches up his cap.  Her voice
     follows him.]

GIRL.  I don't care which win.  I don't care if my country is beaten.
I despise them all--animals--animals.  Ah!  Don't go, ni-ice boy; I
will be quiet now.

     [He has taken some notes from his tunic pocket; he puts then on
     the table and goes up to her.]

YOUNGOFF.  Good-night.

GIRL.  [Plaintively]  Are you really going?  Don't you like me
enough?

YOUNGOFF.  Yes, I like you.

GIRL.  It is because I am German, then?

YOUNGOFF.  No.

GIRL.  Then why won't you stay?

YOUNGOFF.  [With a shrug]  If you must know--because you upset me.

GIRL.  Won't you kees me once?

     [He bends, puts his lips to her forehead.  But as he takes them
     away she throws her head back, presses her mouth to his, and
     clings to him.]

YOUNGOFF.  [Sitting down suddenly]  Don't!  I don't want to feel a
brute.

GIRL.  [Laughing]  You are a funny boy; but you are veree good.  Talk
to me a little, then.  No one talks to me.  Tell me, haf you seen
many German prisoners?

YOUNGOFF.  [Sighing]  A good many.

GIRL.  Any from the Rhine?

YOUNGOFF.  Yes, I think so.

GIRL.  Were they veree sad?

YOUNGOFF.  Some were; some were quite glad to be taken.

GIRL.  Did you ever see the Rhine?  It will be wonderful to-night.
The moonlight will be the same there, and in Rooshia too, and France,
everywhere; and the trees will look the same as here, and people will
meet under them and make love just as here.  Oh! isn't it stupid, the
war?  As if it were not good to be alive!

YOUNGOFF.  You can't tell how good it is to be alive till you're
facing death.  You don't live till then.  And when a whole lot of you
feel like that--and are ready to give their lives for each other,
it's worth all the rest of life put together.

     [He stops, ashamed of such, sentiment before this girl, who
     believes in nothing.]

GIRL.  [Softly]  How were you wounded, ni-ice boy?

YOUNGOFF.  Attacking across open ground: four machine bullets got me
at one go off.

GIRL.  Weren't you veree frightened when they ordered you to attack?

     [He shakes his head and laughs.]

YOUNGOFF.  It was great.  We did laugh that morning.  They got me
much too soon, though--a swindle.

GIRL.  [Staring at him]  You laughed?

YOUNGOFF.  Yes.  And what do you think was the first thing I was
conscious of next morning?  My old Colonel bending over me and giving
me a squeeze of lemon.  If you knew my Colonel you'd still believe in
things.  There is something, you know, behind all this evil.  After
all, you can only die once, and, if it's for your country--all the
better!

     [Her face, in the moonlight, with, intent eyes touched up with
     black, has a most strange, other-world look.]

GIRL.  No; I believe in nothing, not even in my country.  My heart is
dead.

YOUNGOFF.  Yes; you think so, but it isn't, you know, or you
wouldn't have 'been crying when I met you.

GIRL.  If it were not dead, do you think I could live my life-walking
the streets every night, pretending to like strange men; never
hearing a kind word; never talking, for fear I will be known for a
German?  Soon I shall take to drinking; then I shall be "Kaput" veree
quick.  You see, I am practical; I see things clear.  To-night I am a
little emotional; the moon is funny, you know.  But I live for myself
only, now.  I don't care for anything or anybody.

YOUNGOFF.  All the same; just now you were pitying your folk at
home, and prisoners and that.

GIRL.  Yees; because they suffer.  Those who suffer are like me--I
pity myself, that's all; I am different from your English women.  I
see what I am doing; I do not let my mind become a turnip just
because I am no longer moral.

YOUNGOFF.  Nor your heart either, for all you say.

GIRL.  Ni-ice boy, you are veree obstinate.  But all that about love
is 'umbog.  We love ourselves, noting more.

     At that intense soft bitterness in her voice, he gets up,
     feeling stifled, and stands at the window.  A newspaper boy some
     way off is calling his wares.  The GIRL's fingers slip between
     his own, and stay unmoving.  He looks round into her face.  In
     spite of make-up it has a queer, unholy, touching beauty.

YOUNGOFF.  [With an outburst]  No; we don't only love ourselves;
there is more.  I can't explain, but there's something great; there's
kindness--and--and-----

     [The shouting of newspaper boys grows louder and their cries,
     passionately vehement, clash into each other and obscure each
     word.  His head goes up to listen; her hand tightens within his
     arm--she too is listening.  The cries come nearer, hoarser, more
     shrill and clamorous; the empty moonlight outside seems suddenly
     crowded with figures, footsteps, voices, and a fierce distant
     cheering.  "Great victory--great victory!  Official!  British!
     'Eavy defeat of the 'Uns!  Many thousand prisoners!  'Eavy
     defeat!" It speeds by, intoxicating, filling him with a fearful
     joy; he leans far out, waving his cap and cheering like a
     madman; the night seems to flutter and vibrate and answer.  He
     turns to rush down into the street, strikes against something
     soft, and recoils.  The GIRL.stands with hands clenched, and
     face convulsed, panting.  All confused with the desire to do
     something, he stoops to kiss her hand.  She snatches away her
     fingers, sweeps up the notes he has put down, and holds them out
     to him.]

GIRL.  Take them--I will not haf your English money--take them.

     Suddenly she tears them across, twice, thrice, lets the bits.
     flutter to the floor, and turns her back on him.  He stands
     looking at her leaning against the plush-covered table, her head
     down, a dark figure in a dark room, with the moonlight
     sharpening her outline.  Hardly a moment he stays, then makes
     for the door.  When he is gone, she still stands there, her chin
     on her breast, with the sound in her ears of cheering, of
     hurrying feet, and voices crying: "'Eavy Defeat!" stands, in the
     centre of a pattern made by the fragments of the torn-up notes,
     staring out unto the moonlight, seeing not this hated room and
     the hated Square outside, but a German orchard, and herself, a
     little girl, plucking apples, a big dog beside her; and a
     hundred other pictures, such as the drowning see.  Then she
     sinks down on the floor, lays her forehead on the dusty carpet,
     and presses her body to it.  Mechanically, she sweeps together
     the scattered fragments of notes, assembling them with the dust
     into a little pile, as of fallen leaves, and dabbling in it with
     her fingers, while the tears run down her cheeks.

GIRL.  Defeat!  Der Vaterland!  Defeat!....  One shillin'!

     [Then suddenly, in the moonlight, she sits up, and begins to
     sing with all her might "Die Wacht am Rhein."  And outside men
     pass, singing: "Rule, Britannia!"]


                              CURTAIN