 (Coming in.)_ Did Mr. Mineog come yet, John?
 Is the dinner ready?
 And mine on its own peg to the rear.
 Have you any strange news?
 Sure there is the same care and the same burden on myself. I wish I didn't put a supplement to the Champion. The deer knows what way will I fill it between this and Thursday, or in what place I can go questing after news!
 That is so. And the worst is, there is no question ever rises that we do not agree on, or that would have power to make us fall out in earnest. It was different in my early time. The questions used to rise up then were worth fighting for.
 Ah, when they are as long on the road as we are, they'll take things easy.
 There never will. What are the fights of politics and parties beside living neighbourly with one another, and to go peaceable to the grave, our selves that are the oldest residents in the Square.
 Ah, when the age would be getting up on you, you wouldn't be getting younger. But it's yourself that is as full of spirit as a four-year-old. I wish I had a sovereign for every year you will reign after me in the Square.
 _(Rising.)_ Take care might it be open--no, but a pane that is out. There is a very chilly breeze sweeping in.
 I'll do the same myself. It is hard to banish a sore throat. _(They put on coats. John brings in dinner. They sit down.)_
 That's the same cause has left myself with so wide a gap.
 You are a better hand than what I am at filling odd spaces would be left bare. It is often I think the news you put out comes partly from your own brain, and the prophecies you lay down about the weather and the crops.
 I might maybe make an attack on the Tribune for that.
 I spent a good while this evening searching through the shelves of the press I have in the office. I write an article an odd time, when there is nothing doing, that might come handy in a hurry.
 But it's hard find a thing would be suitable, unless you might dress it up again someway fresh.
 That is a strange thing now! I had it in my mind to do the very same service to yourself.
 Your worth and your generosity and the way you have worked the Tribune for your own and for the public good.
 (Suspiciously.)_ You had not much time for that.
 Neither would I spare myself. I have my article wrote.
 I will do the same thing. There's nothing I have said in it but what you will like to be hearing.
 (Rummaging.)_ Here is my one. I was thinking I had it lost.
 (Turning over two sheets.)_ "It was in this parish and district he spent the most part of his promising youth--Richly stored with world-wide knowledge."
 "To lay down his mind on paper it would be hard to beat him."
 So will my own printer be lengthening out the words for me according to the type and the letters of the alphabet he will have plentiful and to spare.
 What's that? I never was one for betting on races or gaining prizes for riddles.
 These typewriters would bother the world. Wait now--let me throw an eye on those papers you have in your hand.
 Of course it is very pleasing to be listening to so nice an account--but lend it a minute. _(Puts out hand.)_
 No, but bring it at my own expense till I will drink to Mr. Mineog. Just give me a hold of that paper for one minute only.
 _(Making a snap.)_ Just for one minute.
 Give me a look at it.
 What would I have to hide but that the papers got mixed in some way, and you have in your hand what I wrote about yourself, and not what you wrote about myself?
 (Putting MS. in his pocket.)_ Give me back my own and I will give you back your own.
 That's not fair dealing to be searching through it against my will.
 Well, follow your own road and take your own way.
 You should understand that.
 I had no thought of the kind.
 I tell you I had it put by this long time till I would have occasion to use it.
 Not at all.
 Can't you listen? I was wanting something to fill space.
 Let you not twist it that way!
 I looked for no such thing.
 You are not.
 Why would you be?
 I see no such signs.
 It is as warm and as good as my own.
 I know that it has not.
 Not at all, not at all.
 You are roaring and bawling without sense.
 Who is asking you to die?
 I tell you there is no danger of you giving up at all! Every person knows there must some sickness come before death. Some take it from a neighbour and it is put on others by God.
 You have not a ha'p'orth on you. No complaint in the world wide.
 What are you talking about? You are thinking us to be in the days of the cholera yet!
 You put the measles over you and we going the road to school.
 You had the chin-cough passed and you rising. We were cut at the one time for the pock.
 Ah, what disease could have you swept in the course of the next two days?
 Ah, what murder!
 The trigger of a gun! God bless it, I never fingered such a thing in the length of my life!
 Oh, now, don't say a thing like that!
 (Pulling out paper.)_ Ah, God bless your jig! And how would I know is it a notice of my own death has come into my hand in the pocket of this coat I put on me through a mistake?
 (Reading.)_ "We sympathise with Mrs. Hazel and the family." There is proof now. Is it that you would go grieving with my wife and I to be living yet?
 Oh, I bear no grudge at all against you. I am not huffy and crabbed like yourself to go taking offence. Sure Kings and big people of the sort are used to see their dead-notices made ready from the hour of their birth out. And it is not anything printed on papers or any flight of words on the Tribune could give me any concern at all. See now will I be put out. _(Reads.)_ What now is this? "Mr. Hazel was of good race, having in him the old stock of the country, the Mahons, the O'Hagans, the Casserlys -." Where now did you get that? I never heard before, a Casserly to be in my fathers.
 It was not. My mother was a girl of the Hessians that was born in the year of the French. My grandmother was Winefred Kane.
 There are twenty thousand things you might lay down and I would give them no leave to annoy me. But I have no mind any strange family to be mixed through me, but to go my own road and to carry my own character.
 I will not have blood put in my veins that never rose up in them by birth. You to have put a slur maybe on the whole of my posterity for ever. That now is a thing out of measure.
 There's no one can know that. What place owns them? My tribe didn't come inside the province. Every generation was born and bred in this or in some neighbouring townland.
 Any person of the Casserlys to have done a wrong deed at any time, the neighbours would be watching and probing my own brood till they would see might the track of it break out in any way. It ran through our race to be hard tempered, from the Kanes that are very hot.
 I would never forgive it, if it was the highest man in Connacht said it.
 Putting on me the weight of a family I never knew or never heard the name of at all. It is that is killing me entirely.
 What made you drag them hither for to write them in my genealogies so?
 Whether or no, you have a great wrong done me! The person I had most dependence on to be the most person to annoy me! If it was a man from the County Mayo I wouldn't see him treated that way!
 That's the worst! I give you my oath I would not go miching from death or be in terror of the sharpness of his bones, and he coming as at the Flood to sweep the living world along with me, and leave no man on earth having penmanship to handle my deeds, or to put his own skin on my story!
 I will not be forgotten! I have posterity will put a good slab over me. Not like some would be left without a monument, unless it might be the rags of a cast waistcoat would be put on sticks in a barley garden, to go flapping at the thieves of the air.
 Why wouldn't we hear? I'm in dread it's too much I'll hear, and you yourself sending such news to travel abroad, that there is blood in me I concealed through my lifetime!
 Tom Mineog to say that of me, that was my trusty comrade and my friend, what at all will strangers be putting out about me?
 You to have brought that annoyance on me, what would enemies be saying of me? That it was in my breed to be cracked or to have a thorn in the tongue. There's a generation of families would be great with you, and behind you they would be backbiting you.
 A rabbit mushroom they might say me to be, with no memory behind or around me!
 They might say me to have been a foreigner or a Jew man!
 It's likely they'll say I was a sheep-stealer or a tinker that went foraging around after food!
 They'll put me down as a grabber that was ready to quench a widow's fire!
 And I not to be able at that time to rise up and to get satisfaction! I to be wandering as a shadow and to see some schemer spilling out his lies! That would be the most grief in death! I to hit him a blow of my fist and he maybe not to feel it or to think it to be but a breeze of wind!
 I to give out a strong curse on him and on his posterity and his land. It would kill my heart if he would take it to be no human voice, but some vanity like the hissing of geese!
 You say that now. But my ghost to come calling to you in the night time to rise up and to clear my character, you would run shivering to the priest as from some unnatural thing. You would call to him to come banish me with a Mass!
 To have no power of revenge after death! My strength to go nourish weeds and grass! A lie to be told and I living I could go lay my case before the courts. So I will too! I'll silence you! I'll learn you to have done with misspellings and with death notices! I'll hinder you bringing in Casserlys! I go take advice from the lawyer! _(Goes towards door.)_
 I'll get justice and a hearing. The Judge will give in to my say!
 I'll break the bail of the sun and moon before I'll give you leave to go brand me with strange names the same as you would tarbrand a sheep! I'll put yourself and your Tribune under the law of libel!
 (At door.)_ I will lay my information before you will overtake me!
 I have no intention of bringing it away!
 Did I never carve a goose? Why wouldn't there be a spot of grease on my own sleeve?
 Give me back my own coat, so!
 Strip it off before you will quit the room!
 You will not cast it on the dust and the dirt of the floor! _(Helps him.)_ Go easy now. -That's it - _(Takes it off gently and places it on chair.)_
 (Struggling with it.)_ It fails me to get it off.
 It is that it is made too narrow.
 (Struggling.)_ There now is a tear!
 Give me a hand, so.
 There is not--unless some sort of a battle.
 (After a pause.)_ Apple pie?
 (Stopping John and taking them.)_ Thursday is very near at hand. Two empty columns is a large space to go fill.
 (Putting his MS. in his pocket.)_ There is nothing ails them only to begin a good way after the start, and to stop before the finish.
 (Filling glasses and lifting his.)_ That it may be long before they will be needed!
