(Coming in.)_ Mr. Hazel is the first tonight. I'm glad to see you looking so good. _(They take off coats and give to waiter.)_
 Put that on its own peg. 
 I have but the same news I always have, that it is quick Monday comes around, and that it is hard make provision for to fill up the four sheets of the Tribune, and nothing happening in these parts worth while. There would seem to be no news on this day beyond all days of the year. 
 Last week passed without anything doing. It is a very backward place to give information for two papers. If it was not for the league is between us, and for us meeting here on every Monday to make sure we are taking different sides on every question may turn up, and giving every abuse to one another in print, there is no person would pay his penny for the two of them, or it may be for the one of them. 
 There are some people so cantankerous they will heat themselves in argument as to which side might be right or wrong in a war, or if wars should be in it at all, or hangings. 
 Now all the kingdoms of the earth to go struggling on one wrong side or another, or to bring themselves down to dust and ashes, it would not break our friendship. In all the years past there never did a cross word rise between us. 
 It will be long indeed before you will be followed to the grave. You didn't live no length yet. You are too fresh to go out and to forsake your wife and your family. 
 _(Sneezes.)_ There is a draught of air coming in the window. 
 _(Rising.)_ I will put on my coat so. There is no use giving provocation to a cold. 
 See can you baffle that draught of air, John.
 Two columns of the Tribune as empty yet as anything you could see. I had them kept free for the Bishop's speech and he didn't come after. 
 In the years past there used always to be something happening such as famines, or the invention of printing. The whole world has got very slack. 
 Ah, I might stick in a bit of invention sometimes, when I'm put to the pin of my collar. 
 Ah, what is it but a white sin. Sure it tells every person the same thing. It doesn't tell many lies, it goes somewhere a near it. 
 So have I a press of the sort, and shelves in it. I am after going through them to-day. 
 I made a thought and I searching a while ago. I was thinking it would be a very nice thing to show respect to yourself, and friendliness, putting down a short account of you and of all you have done for your family and for the town. 
 Is that so? 
 And another thing. I not only thought to write it but I am after writing it. 
 I never was one to spare myself in anything that could benefit a friend. 
 I have a mind to read my own one to you, the way you will know there is nothing in it but what is friendly and is kind. 
(Who has rummaged pockets.)_ I thought I put it in the inside pocket--no matter--here it is. 
(Reading, after he has turned over a couple of sheets rapidly)_ "Born and bred in this Square, he took his chief pride in his native town." 
 "Well able to give out an opinion on any matter at all." 
 "With all that, humble that he would halt and speak to you the same as a child -" I'm maybe putting it down a bit too simple, but the printer will give it a little shaping after. 
 "Well looking and well thought of. A true Irishman in supporting all forms of sport." 
 It is strange now I have no recollection of putting that down. It is I myself in the days gone by would put an odd shilling on a horse. 
 Not at all. I would sooner be giving it out to you myself. 
 Bring me now a bottle of wine, John--you know the sort--till I'll drink to Mr. Hazel's good health.
 Keep patience now. I will go through it with no delay. 
 _(Clapping his hand on it.)_ What a hurry you are in! Stop now till I'll find the place. "Very rarely indeed has been met with so fair and so neighbourly a man." 
 What is it ails you? You are uneasy about something. What is it you are hiding from me? 
 What way did they get into the wrong pocket now? 
 I don't know. You are putting it in my mind there might be something underhand. I would like to make sure what did you say about me in the heel. _(Turns over.)_ "He was honest and widely respected." Was honest--are you saying me to be a rogue at this time? 
 "He was trusted through the whole townland." Was trusted--is it that you are making me out to be a thief? 
 " -Mr. Mineog leaves no family to lament his loss, but along with the Tribune, which he fostered with the care of a father, we offer up prayers for the repose of his soul." _(Stands up.)_ It is a notice of my death you are after writing! 
 An obituary notice! Of myself! Is it that you expect me to quit the living world between this and Thursday? 
 I'm not stretched yet! What call have you to go offer prayers for me? 
 Is it this long time, so, you have been waiting for my death? 
 You to kill me to-day and to think to bury me to-morrow! 
 Would nothing serve you to fill space but only my own corpse? To go set my coffin making and to put nettles growing on my hearth! Wouldn't it be enough to rob my house or to make an attack upon my means? Wouldn't that fill up the gap? 
 The time I was in the face of my little dinner to go startle me with a thing of the sort! I'm not worth the ground I stand on! For the Champion of next Thursday! I to be dead ere Thursday! 
 What is it makes you say me to be done and dying? Am I reduced in the face? 
 Am I yellow and pale and shrunken? 
 Would you say me to be crampy in the body? Am I staggery in the legs? 
 Is it in my hand you see them? Is it lame or is it freezed-brittle like ice? 
 Let me take a hold of you till you will tell me has it the feel of a dead man's grip. 
 Is it shaking like a bunch of timber shavings? 
 It should be my hearing that is failing from me, or that I am crippled and have lost my walk. 
 Let the Champion go to flitters before I will die to please it! I will not give in to it driving me out of the world before my hour is spent! It would hardly ask that of a man would be of no use and no account, or even of a beast of any consequence. 
 Giving no time hardly for the priest to overtake me and to give me the rites of the Church! 
 Even so, it's hard say. 
 That's nothing! Sickness comes upon some as sudden as to clap their hands. 
 There are yet other diseases besides that. 
 There is more than measles has power bring a man down. 
 A disease to be allotted to you it would find you out, and you maybe up twenty mile in the air! 
 That is what I'm after saying--unless you might have murder in your mind? 
 What way are you thinking to do away with me? To shoot me with the trigger of a gun and to give me shortening of life? 
 To take aim at me and destroy me; to shoot me in forty halves like a crow in the time of the wheat! 
 Or to drown me maybe in the river, enticing me across the rotten plank of the bridge. _(Seizing bottle.)_ Will you tell me on the virtue of your oath, is death lurking in that sherry wine? 
 Give it here. That's my property! 
 I didn't follow you out beyond this world with craving for the repose of your soul. It is nothing at all beside what you wrote. 
 It might be on the side of the mother. 
 What is being out in one name towards drawing down the forecast of all classes of deaths upon myself? 
 I would say you to be very crabbed to be making much of a small little mistake of the sort. 
 It might be the Casserlys are as fair as the Hessians, and as well looking and as well reared. 
 Sure you will be but yourself whatever family may be laying claim to you. 
 Why would the family of the Casserlys go doing wrong deeds more than another? 
 I tell you there to be any flaw in them, it would have worked itself out in yourself ere this. 
 Neither did I ever hear their name or if they ever lived in the world, or did any deed good or bad in it at all. 
 I did not drag them hither -Give me that paper. _(Takes MS. and looks at it.)_ What would it be but a misprint? Hessian, Casserly. There does be great resemblance in the sound of a double S. 
 Have sense now! What would signify anything might be wrote about you, and the green scraws being over your head? 
 Ah it's likely the both of us will be forgotten and our names along with us, and we out in the meadow of the dead. 
 Let the birds or the neighbours go screech after me and welcome, and I not in it to hear or to be annoyed. 
 What you are saying now has not the sense of reason. 
 Ah, what call have you to go lamenting as if you had lost all on this side of the sea! 
 They will not. You are of a family doesn't know how to say a wrong word. 
 Not at all. The world knows you to be civil and brought up to mannerly ways. 
 I can bear witness you have no such yellow look. And Hazel is a natural name. 
 You that never put your hand on a rabbit burrow or stood before a magistrate or a judge! 
 Oh, where are you running to at all my dear man! 
 You are going too far entirely! 
 I myself would recognise your voice, and you to be living or dead. 
 The Lord be between us and harm. 
 I'll go lay down my own case and the way that you have my life threatened! 
 I that will put you under bail! I'll bind you over to quit prophesying! 
 I'll make a world's wonder of you! I'll give plenty and enough to the Champion to fill out its windy pages that time! 
(Seizing him.)_ I will lay my information against you for theft and you bringing away my coat! 
 Is it that you will deny it? Don't I know that spot of grease on the sleeve? 
 Strip it off of you this minute! 
 What are you talking about! That's a great wonder now. So it is not my own coat. 
 I'll be well pleased casting it off! 
 Give me now my own coat! 
 What way did you get it on? 
 No, but yourself that has too much bulk. 
(Taking his arm.)_ Mind now, you'll have it destroyed. 
(Helping him gently.)_ Have a care--it's a bit tender in the seams -give me here your hand--it is caught in the rip of the lining.
(Sitting down.)_ Indeed, I am not any way inclined for eating. _(Takes plate. John stuffs a cushion into window pane and picks up MSS.)_
 Let you throw them on the coals of the fire, where we have no use for them presently. 
 Indeed I am feeling no way fit to go writing columns. 
(Putting his MS. in his pocket.)_ We'll do that. We can put such part of them as we do not need at this time back in the shelf of the press. 
