
 At last! What's the matter? They were unworthy of you. I will write you some more. Thank Heaven for your madness, your rashness, your imprudence! They will think that a man once loved a woman more devotedly than ever man loved woman before. But they will not know what man it was. But how will they know? Write poems to you with reserve! You ask me that! Ah, how I wish they had been addressed to an unmarried woman! how I wish they had! 
 Have you got sisters-in-law? 
 I do. Heaven help me, I do--or I did--or 
 
 Ah, of course they are your husband's relatives: I forgot that. Forgive me, Aurora. 
 She will not understand them, I think. 
 Oh don't, don't think of people in that way. Don't think of her at all. 
 Aurora: do you remember the evening when I sat here at your feet and read you those poems for the first time? Yes, you are right. It will be a profanation. 
 To me Teddy is nothing, and Georgina less than nothing. And oh! how happy I am! 
 Yes: I deserve that. I think if I were going to the stake with you, I should still be so happy with you that I could hardly feel your danger more than my own. 
 Your heart will tell you at the right time. I have thought deeply over this; and I know what we two must do, sooner or later. If you did, you would no longer be Aurora. Our course is perfectly simple, perfectly straightforward, perfectly stainless and true. We love one another. I am not ashamed of that: I am ready to go out and proclaim it to all London as simply as I will declare it to your husband when you see--as you soon will see--that this is the only way honorable enough for your feet to tread. Let us go out together to our own house, this evening, without concealment and without shame. Remember! we owe something to your husband. We are his guests here: he is an honorable man: he has been kind to us: he has perhaps loved you as well as his prosaic nature and his sordid commercial environment permitted. We owe it to him in all honor not to let him learn the truth from the lips of a scandalmonger. Let us go to him now quietly, hand in hand; bid him farewell; and walk out of the house without concealment and subterfuge, freely and honestly, in full honor and self-respect. We shall not depart by a hair's breadth from the ordinary natural current of our lives. We were going to the theatre when the loss of the poems compelled us to take action at once. We shall go to the theatre still; but we shall leave your diamonds here; for we cannot afford diamonds, and do not need them. I never thought of doing so, dearest: I know that these trivialities are nothing to you. What was I saying--oh yes. Instead of coming back here from the theatre, you will come with me to my home--now and henceforth our home--and in due course of time, when you are divorced, we shall go through whatever idle legal ceremony you may desire. I attach no importance to the law: my love was not created in me by the law, nor can it be bound or loosed by it. That is simple enough, and sweet enough, is it not? 
 Here are flowers for you: I have the tickets: we will ask your husband to lend us the carriage to show that there is no malice, no grudge, between us. Come! Well, let us take that calmly. Let us go to the theatre as if nothing had happened, and tell him when we come back. Now or three hours hence: to-day or to-morrow: what does it matter, provided all is done in honor, without shame or fear? I tried; but Lohengrin was sold out for to-night. 
 Can you ask me? What is there besides Lohengrin that we two could endure, except Candida? 
 Aurora! That divinest love poem! the poem that gave us courage to speak to one another! that revealed to us what we really felt for one another! That -- 
 You were right. You are like Candida. 
 Aurora: if Candida had loved Eugene she would have gone out into the night with him without a moment's hesitation. There is nothing wanting in it. What is that? Let us be just to Georgina, dearest She really sees the world in that way. That is her punishment. 
 My dear: I really don't care about Georgina or about Teddy. All these squabbles belong to a plane on which I am, as you say, no use. I have counted the cost; and I do not fear the consequences. After all, what is there to fear? Where is the difficulty? What can Georgina do? What can your husband do? What can anybody do? Yes. What can be simpler? 
 You don't understand these things, my darling, how could you? In one respect I am unlike the poet in the play. I have followed the Greek ideal and not neglected the culture of my body. Your husband would make a tolerable second-rate heavy weight if he were in training and ten years younger. As it is, he could, if strung up to a great effort by a burst of passion, give a good account of himself for perhaps fifteen seconds. But I am active enough to keep out of his reach for fifteen seconds; and after that I should be simply all over him. 
 Don't ask me, dearest. At all events, I swear to you that you need not be anxious about me. All this alarm is needless, dearest. Believe me, nothing will happen. Your husband knows that I am capable of defending myself. Under such circumstances nothing ever does happen. And of course I shall do nothing. The man who once loved you is sacred to me. No, no. 
 Dearest, dearest: how agitated you are! how unlike yourself! All these worries belong to the lower plane. Come up with me to the higher one. The heights, the solitudes, the soul world! 
 Mr Apjohn!!! How could you even think of me as Mr Apjohn? I never think of you as Mrs Bompas: it is always Cand-- I mean Aurora, Aurora, Auro -- 
 Are you afraid? 
 Perfect love casteth out fear. That is why I am not afraid. Mrs Bompas: you do not love me. Why do you thank me? Once or twice in my life I have dreamed that I was exquisitely happy and blessed. But oh! the misgiving at the first stir of consciousness! the stab of reality! the prison walls of the bedroom! the bitter, bitter disappointment of waking! And this time! oh, this time I thought I was awake. 
 I beg your pardon. What is it you want me to do? I am at your service. I am ready to behave like a gentleman if you will be kind enough to explain exactly how. Go on. Go on quickly. Give me something to think about, or I will--I will--
 I beg your pardon. I will buy you a new one. 
 Then you will have to do without it: that's all. If you knew how near I was to breaking Teddy's pet wife and presenting him with the pieces, you would be thankful that you are alive instead of--of--of howling about five shillings worth of ivory. Damn your fan! 
 This is some horrible dream. What has become of you? You are not my Aurora. Don't drag me down--don't--don't. Help me to find the way back to the heights. It seems so to me. I can suggest nothing now. A chill black darkness has fallen: I can see nothing but the ruins of our dream. 
 
 All I can say is that I am entirely at your service. What do you wish me to do? No. You said you were the only Aurora in the world. And 
 oh God! you were the only Aurora in the world to me. 
 Yes, by heart. 
 Don't you? 
 No. Of course I am quite sure. How could I use such a name in a poem? What does it matter--now? 
 Oh, if you wish me to tell a lie -- Very well. You have broken my spirit and desecrated my dreams. I will lie and protest and stand on my honor: oh, I will play the gentleman, never fear. 
 You are quite right, Mrs Bompas: I beg your pardon. You must excuse my temper. I have got growing pains, I think. The process of growing from romantic boyhood into cynical maturity usually takes fifteen years. When it is compressed into fifteen minutes, the pace is too fast; and growing pains are the result. Yes: I'm capable of anything now. I should not have told him the truth by halves; and now I will not lie by halves. I'll wallow in the honor of a gentleman. What is it? The tableau would be complete in its guiltiness. For Heaven's sake, Mrs Bompas, let that glove alone: you look like a pickpocket. Her husband comes in: a robust, thicknecked, well groomed city man, with a strong chin but a blithering eye and credulous mouth. He has a momentous air, but shows no sign of displeasure: rather the contrary. 
 I am at your service. We have decided not to go. 
 I think I should prefer plenty of room. Manuscripts? 
 Why, these are my poems. What a shame! Mrs Bompas has shown them to you! You must think me an utter ass. I wrote them years ago after reading Swinburne's Songs Before Sunrise. Nothing would do me then but I must reel off a set of Songs to the Sunrise. Aurora, you know: the rosy fingered Aurora. They're all about Aurora. When Mrs Bompas told me her name was Aurora, I couldn't resist the temptation to lend them to her to read. But I didn't bargain for your unsympathetic eyes. 
 Do you mean to imply that you don't believe me? Why not? I don't understand. I assure you I am quite at a loss. Can you not be a little more explicit? 
 Mr Bompas: I pledge you my word you are mistaken. I need not tell you that Mrs Bompas is a lady of stainless honor, who has never cast an unworthy thought on me. The fact that she has shown you my poems -- Does not that prove their perfect innocence? She would have shown them to you at once if she had taken your quite unfounded view of them. 
 Believe me, you are. I assure you, on my honor as a gentleman, that I have never had the slightest feeling for Mrs Bompas beyond the ordinary esteem and regard of a pleasant acquaintance. 
 I should never have dreamt of writing poems to her. The thing is absurd. 
 Well, it happens that I do not admire Mrs Bompas--in that way. 
 There is no need to insult me like this. I assure you, on my honor as a -- Mr Bompas: I can make allowances for your jealousy -- 
 How can I convince you? Be reasonable. I tell you my relations with Mrs Bompas are relations of perfect coldness--of indifference -- Look here: I'm not going to stand this. This is ridiculous. I assure you Mrs. Bompas is quite -- 
 You call me a swine again and I'll land you one on the chin that'll make your head sing for a week. 
 I have got a most frightful bump on the back of my head. 
 
 Yes. I take it back. 
 I take it all back, all, without reserve. 
 I shall do nothing of the sort. I have steeped myself in lies for your sake; and the only reward I get is a lump on the back of my head the size of an apple. Now I will go back to the straight path. It's no use. Your husband is a fool and a brute -- I say you are a fool and a brute; and if you'll step outside with me I'll say it again. 
 Those poems were written to your wife, every word of them, and to nobody else. 
 I wrote them because I loved her. I thought her the most beautiful woman in the world; and I told her so over and over again. I adored her: do you hear? I told her that you were a sordid commercial chump, utterly unworthy of her; and so you are. Yes, I do mean it, and a lot more too. I asked Mrs Bompas to walk out of the house with me--to leave you--to get divorced from you and marry me. I begged and implored her to do it this very night. It was her refusal that ended everything between us. 
 What she can see in you, goodness only knows! What can I do? Oh, I don't mind. I am past minding anything. I have grown too fast this evening. This morning I was eighteen. Now I am--confound it! I'm quoting that beast of a play 
 
