 Hallo! I thought you two were at the theatre. 
 I got a message from Georgina. She wanted me to go to her. 
 Nothing, except anxiety for my welfare and yours. [She steals a terrified look at Henry] By, the way, Apjohn, I should like a word with you this evening, if Aurora can spare you for a moment. 
 No hurry. After the theatre will do. 
 Indeed! Well, then, shall we adjourn to my snuggery? 
[as he hands her the cloud and the mirror] Well, we shall have more room here. 
 So, if it's not disturbing you, Rory--? 
 Do these manuscripts seem at all familiar to you, may I ask? 
 Yes. Would you like to look at them a little closer? [He proffers them under Henry's nose] 
 So I gather. 
[grinning] Apjohn: that's really very ready of you. You are cut out for literature; and the day will come when Rory and I will be proud to have you about the house. I have heard far thinner stories from much older men. 
 Do you expect me to believe you? 
 Come! Don't underrate your own cleverness, Apjohn. I think you understand pretty well. 
 Don't overdo it, old chap. However, I will just be so far explicit as to say that if you think these poems read as if they were addressed, not to a live woman, but to a shivering cold time of day at which you were never out of bed in your life, you hardly do justice to your own literary powers--which I admire and appreciate, mind you, as much as any man. Come! own up. You wrote those poems to my wife. [An internal struggle prevents Henry from answering] Of course you did. [He throws the poems on the table; and goes to the hearthrug, where he plants himself solidly, chuckling a little and waiting for the next move] 
 That's not a fact. I came by them without her knowledge. She didn't show them to me. 
[shaken] Apjohn: play fair. Don't abuse your intellectual gifts. Do you really mean that I am making a fool of myself? 
[shortly, showing ill humor for the first time] Oh, indeed. [He leaves his hearth and begins to approach Henry slowly, looking him up and down with growing resentment] 
[reddening ominously] Why is it absurd? 
[breaking out in Henry's face] Let me tell you that Mrs Bompas has been admired by better men than you, you soapy headed little puppy, you. 
[too angry to tolerate a reply, and boring Henry more and more towards the piano] You don't admire Mrs Bompas! You would never dream of writing poems to Mrs Bompas! My wife's not good enough for you, isn't she. [Fiercely] Who are you, pray, that you should be so jolly superior? 
 Jealousy! do you suppose I'm jealous of YOU? No, nor of ten like you. But if you think I'll stand here and let you insult my wife in her own house, you're mistaken. 
[scornfully] Say it again: say it again. You're proud of it, aren't you? Yah! You're not worth kicking. Henry suddenly executes the feat known to pugilists as dipping, and changes sides with Teddy, who it now between Henry and the piano. 
 Oh, you have some blood in your body after all! Good job! 
 What is Mrs Bompas to you, I'd like to know. I'll tell you what Mrs Bompas is. She's the smartest woman in the smartest set in South Kensington, and the handsomest, and the cleverest, and the most fetching to experienced men who know a good thing when they see it, whatever she may be to conceited penny-a-lining puppies who think nothing good enough for them. It's admitted by the best people; and not to know it argues yourself unknown. Three of our first actor-managers have offered her a hundred a week if she'd go on the stage when they start a repertory theatre; and I think they know what they're about as well as you. The only member of the present Cabinet that you might call a handsome man has neglected the business of the country to dance with her, though he don't belong to our set as a regular thing. One of the first professional poets in Bedford Park wrote a sonnet to her, worth all your amateur trash. At Ascot last season the eldest son of a duke excused himself from calling on me on the ground that his feelings for Mrs Bompas were not consistent with his duty to me as host; and it did him honor and me too. But [with gathering fury] she isn't good enough for you, it seems. You regard her with coldness, with indifference; and you have the cool cheek to tell me so to my face. For two pins I'd flatten your nose in to teach you manners. Introducing a fine woman to you is casting pearls before swine [yelling at him] before SWINE! d'ye hear? 
[exploding] What--! He charges at Henry with bull-like fury. Henry places himself on guard in the manner of a well taught boxer, and gets away smartly, but unfortunately forgets the stool which is just behind him. He falls backwards over it, unintentionally pushing it against the shins of Bompas, who falls forward over it. Mrs Bompas, with a scream, rushes into the room between the sprawling champions, and sits down on the floor in order to get her right arm round her husband's neck. 
[vengefully] I'll prizefight him. [He struggles vainly to free himself from her embrace] 
 I won't, unless he takes it back. 
 What's that you say? 
[so gratified, he can hardly believe his ears] You don't mean it! 
[beaming with remorse] My dear chap, why didn't you say so before? I apologize. Come! Don't bear malice: shake hands. Make him shake hands, Rory. 
[shaking it heartily] You've got to own that none of your literary heroines can touch my Rory. [He turns to her and claps her with fond pride on the shoulder] Eh, Rory? They can't resist you: none of em. Never knew a man yet that could hold out three days. 
 Will you do me a great favor, Apjohn. I hardly like to ask; but it would be a real kindness to us both. 
[taking up the poems] Well, may I get these printed? It shall be done in the best style. The finest paper, sumptuous binding, everything first class. They're beautiful poems. I should like to show them about a bit. 
 What shall we call the volume? To Aurora, or something like that, eh? 
