 Henry: something dreadful has happened. 
 I have lost your poems. 
 No, thank you. Never any more poems for me. Oh, how could I have been so mad! so rash! so imprudent! 
[impatiently] Oh, be sensible, Henry. Can't you see what a terrible thing this is for me? Suppose anybody finds these poems! what will they think? 
 What good is that to me if everybody will know what woman it was? 
 How will they know! Why, my name is all over them: my silly, unhappy name. Oh, if I had only been christened Mary Jane, or Gladys Muriel, or Beatrice, or Francesca, or Guinevere, or something quite common! But Aurora! Aurora! I'm the only Aurora in London; and everybody knows it. I believe I'm the only Aurora in the world. And it's so horribly easy to rhyme to it! Oh, Henry, why didn't you try to restrain your feelings a little in common consideration for me? Why didn't you write with some little reserve? 
[with perfunctory tenderness] Yes, dear, of course it was very nice of you; and I know it was my own fault as much as yours. I ought to have noticed that your verses ought never to have been addressed to a married woman. 
 Indeed you have no right to wish anything of the sort. They are quite unfit for anybody but a married woman. That's just the difficulty. What will my sisters-in-law think of them? 
 Yes, of course I have. Do you suppose I am an angel? 
[softening and putting her hand caressingly on his shoulder] Listen to me, dear. It's very nice of you to live with me in a dream, and to love me, and so on; but I can't help my husband having disagreeable relatives, can I? 
 The fact is, Teddy's got nothing but relatives. He has eight sisters and six half-sisters, and ever so many brothers--but I don't mind his brothers. Now if you only knew the least little thing about the world, Henry, you'd know that in a large family, though the sisters quarrel with one another like mad all the time, yet let one of the brothers marry, and they all turn on their unfortunate sister-in-law and devote the rest of their lives with perfect unanimity to persuading him that his wife is unworthy of him. They can do it to her very face without her knowing it, because there are always a lot of stupid low family jokes that nobody understands but themselves. Half the time you can't tell what they're talking about: it just drives you wild. There ought to be a law against a man's sister ever entering his house after he's married. I'm as certain as that I'm sitting here that Georgina stole those poems out of my workbox. 
 Oh, won't she! She'll understand them only too well. She'll understand more harm than ever was in them: nasty vulgar-minded cat! 
 I shouldn't have let you: I see that now. When I think of Georgina sitting there at Teddy's feet and reading them to him for the first time, I feel I shall just go distracted. 
 Oh, I don't care about the profanation; but what will Teddy think? what will he do? [Suddenly throwing his head away from her knee] You don't seem to think a bit about Teddy. [She jumps up, more and more agitated] 
 You'll soon find out how much less than nothing she is. If you think a woman can't do any harm because she's only a scandalmongering dowdy ragbag, you're greatly mistaken. [She flounces about the room. He gets up slowly and dusts his hands. Suddenly she runs to him and throws herself into his arms] Henry: help me. Find a way out of this for me; and I'll bless you as long as you live. Oh, how wretched I am! [She sobs on his breast] 
[whisking herself abruptly away] Don't be selfish. 
[relenting and patting his hand fondly] Oh, you are a dear darling boy, Henry; but [throwing his hand away fretfully] you're no use. I want somebody to tell me what to do. 
 No, Henry. I will do nothing improper, nothing dishonorable. [She sits down plump on the stool and looks inflexible] 
[staring at him] And where shall we go to? 
[fretfully] I have told you already that I hate diamonds; only Teddy insists on hanging me all over with them. You need not preach simplicity to me. 
[spiritlessly, taking the flowers without looking at them, and temporizing] Teddy isn't in yet. 
 What did you get tickets for? Lohengrin? 
 Then what did you get? 
[springing up] Candida! No, I won't go to it again, Henry [tossing the flower on the piano] It is that play that has done all the mischief. I'm very sorry I ever saw it: it ought to be stopped. 
 Yes: I mean it. 
 Just so. It put a lot of stuff into my head that I should never have dreamt of for myself. I imagined myself just like Candida. 
[snatching her hands away] Oh, stuff! And I thought you were just like Eugene. [Looking critically at him] Now that I come to look at you, you are rather like him, too. [She throws herself discontentedly into the nearest seat, which happens to be the bench at the piano. He goes to her] 
[with equal earnestness] Henry: do you know what's wanting in that play? 
 Yes there is. There's a Georgina wanting in it. If Georgina had been there to make trouble, that play would have been a true-to-life tragedy. Now I'll tell you something about it that I have never told you before. 
 I took Teddy to it. I thought it would do him good; and so it would if I could only have kept him awake. Georgina came too; and you should have heard the way she went on about it. She said it was downright immoral, and that she knew the sort of woman that encourages boys to sit on the hearthrug and make love to her. She was just preparing Teddy's mind to poison it about me. 
 Let her deserve it first. Just to Georgina, indeed! 
 How can it be her punishment when she likes it? It'll be my punishment when she brings that budget of poems to Teddy. I wish you'd have some sense, and sympathize with my position a little. 
 Do you mean to say that you propose that we should walk right bang up to Teddy and tell him we're going away together? 
 And do you think for a moment he'd stand it, like that half-baked clergyman in the play? He'd just kill you. 
[rising and coming to him in consternation] What do you mean by all over him? 
 And what about Teddy? Do you mean to tell me that you are going to beat Teddy before my face like a brutal prizefighter? 
[suspiciously] Doesn't he love me still? Has he told you anything? 
[avoiding his gaze] No: stop: it's no use, Mr Apjohn. 
 Excuse me: I meant Henry, of course. 
 Yes, yes: that's all very well, Mr Apjohn [He is about to interrupt again: but she won't have it] no: it's no use: I've suddenly begun to think of you as Mr Apjohn; and it's ridiculous to go on calling you Henry. I thought you were only a boy, a child, a dreamer. I thought you would be too much afraid to do anything. And now you want to beat Teddy and to break up my home and disgrace me and make a horrible scandal in the papers. It's cruel, unmanly, cowardly. 
 Oh, of course I'm afraid. So would you be if you had any common sense. [She goes to the hearth, turning her back to him, and puts one tapping foot on the fender] 
[turning to him with a gasp of relief] Oh, thank you, thank you! You really can be very nice, Henry. 
[coming prettily to him from the fireplace] For calling me Mrs Bompas again. I feel now that you are going to be reasonable and behave like a gentleman. [He drops on the stool; covers his face with his hand; and groans] What's the matter? 
 Listen to me, Henry: we really haven't time for all that sort of flapdoodle now. [He starts to his feet as if she had pulled a trigger and straightened him by the release of a powerful spring, and goes past her with set teeth to the little table] Oh, take care: you nearly hit me in the chin with the top of your head. 
[a little frightened] Thank you, Henry: I was sure you would. You're not angry with me, are you? 
[running forward and catching at the fan, with loud lamentation] Don't break my fan--no, don't. [He slowly relaxes his grip of it as she draws it anxiously out of his hands] No, really, that's a stupid trick. I don't like that. You've no right to do that. [She opens the fan, and finds that the sticks are disconnected] Oh, how could you be so inconsiderate? 
[querulously] You will never be able to match it. And it was a particular favorite of mine. 
 That's not a very nice thing to say after breaking my pet fan, I think. 
 Oh! Don't you dare swear in my presence. One would think you were my husband. 
 Oh, well, if you come to that, what has become of you? Do you think I would ever have encouraged you if I had known you were such a little devil? 
[kneeling beside him and pleading] If you would only be reasonable, Henry. If you would only remember that I am on the brink of ruin, and not go on calmly saying it's all quite simple. 
[jumping up distractedly] If you say that again I shall do something I'll be sorry for. Here we are, standing on the edge of a frightful precipice. No doubt it's quite simple to go over and have done with it. But can't you suggest anything more agreeable? 
 Can't you? Well, I can. I can see Georgina rubbing those poems into Teddy. [Facing him determinedly] And I tell you, Henry Apjohn, that you got me into this mess; and you must get me out of it again. 
 Do you know anybody else named Aurora? 
 There's no use in saying No in that frozen pigheaded way. You must know some Aurora or other somewhere. 
[petting him] Yes, yes, dear: of course. It's very nice of you; and I appreciate it: indeed I do; but it's not reasonable just at present. Now just listen to me. I suppose you know all those poems by heart. 
 Well, I never can remember verses; and besides, I've been so busy that I've not had time to read them all; though I intend to the very first moment I can get: I promise you that most faithfully, Henry. But now try and remember very particularly. Does the name of Bompas occur in any of the poems? 
 You're quite sure? 
 Well, I don't see why not. It rhymes to rumpus, which seems appropriate enough at present, goodness knows! However, you're a poet, and you ought to know. 
 It matters a lot, I can tell you. If there's nothing about Bompas in the poems, we can say that they were written to some other Aurora, and that you showed them to me because my name was Aurora too. So you've got to invent another Aurora for the occasion. 
 Surely, as a man of honor--as a gentleman, you wouldn't tell the truth, would you? 
 Yes, put it all on me, of course. Don't be mean, Henry. 
 Growing pains! 
 Oh, is this a time for cleverness? It's settled, isn't it, that you're going to be nice and good, and that you'll brazen it out to Teddy that you have some other Aurora? 
 Dearest boy, I knew you would. I--Sh! [she rushes to the door, and holds it ajar, listening breathlessly] 
[white with apprehension] It's Teddy: I hear him tapping the new barometer. He can't have anything serious on his mind or he wouldn't do that. Perhaps Georgina hasn't said anything. [She steals back to the hearth] Try and look as if there was nothing the matter. Give me my gloves, quick. [He hands them to her. She pulls on one hastily and begins buttoning it with ostentatious unconcern] Go further away from me, quick. [He walks doggedly away from her until the piano prevents his going farther] If I button my glove, and you were to hum a tune, don't you think that -- 
 I felt anxious about you, Teddy. Why didn't you come home to dinner? 
 Poor dear Georgina! I'm sorry I haven't been able to call on her this last week. I hope there's nothing the matter with her. 
 You needn't move. I shall go and lock up my diamonds since I'm not going to the theatre. Give me my things. 
 Not at all. [She goes out] When the two men are alone together, Bompas deliberately takes the poems from his breast pocket; looks at them reflectively; then looks at Henry, mutely inviting his attention. Henry refuses to understand, doing his best to look unconcerned. 
 You shan't, Teddy: you shan't. You will be killed: he is a prizefighter. 
 Henry: don't let him fight you. Promise me that you won't. 
[reaching out her left hand to seize his coat tail, and pulling him down again, whilst keeping fast hold of Teddy with the other hand] Not until you have promised: not until you both have promised. [Teddy tries to rise: she pulls him back again] Teddy: you promise, don't you? Yes, yes. Be good: you promise. 
 He will: he does. You take it back, Henry?--yes. 
[on the carpet] Is nobody going to help me up? [They each take a hand and pull her up] Now won't you shake hands and be good? 
 Henry: for Heaven's sake -- 
 For my sake, Henry. After all, he's my husband. Forgive him. Take his hand. [Henry, dazed, lets her take his hand and place it in Teddy's] 
 Don't be foolish, Teddy. I hope you were not really hurt, Henry. [She feels the back of his head. He flinches] Oh, poor boy, what a bump! I must get some vinegar and brown paper. [She goes to the bell and rings] 
[running back from the bell, delighted with the idea, and coming between them] Oh Henry, if you wouldn't mind! 
 How old are you, Henry? 
