 Is there e'er a sign of McDonough to be coming? A great wonder he not to have come, and this the fair day of Galway. Is there no neighbour at all will do that much, and she being gone out of the world? Did you do as I bade you, asking Cross Ford to send in a couple of the boys she has? What did she say hearing that? There will no help come burying her so. Whether or no, she was a little giddy. But that is the way with McDonough. He is sometimes an unruly lad, but he would near knock you with his pride. It is not to humour her the Union men will, and they carrying her to where they will sink her into the ground, unless it might be McDonough would come back, and he having money in his hand, to bring in some keeners and some hired men. What makes you say that to be certain? What day was that? He has time and plenty to be back in Galway ere this. He is a great one to squeeze the pipes surely. There is no place ever he went into but he brought the whip out of it. He did, and from beyond the world, where he befriended some in the forths of the Danes. It was they taught him their trade. I heard tell, he to throw the pipes up on top of the rafters, they would go sounding out tunes of themselves. He is a great musician surely. He to be in the fair to-day and to take the fancy, you would hear the nailed boots of the frieze-coated man footing steps on the sidewalk. I wonder he did not come. Could it be he might be made away with for the riches he brought from Cregroostha? It would be a strange thing now, he to be lying and his head broke, at the butt of a wall, and the woman he thought the whole world of to be getting her burial from the workhouse. 
 
 I'm in dread of him coming in the house. He is a hasty man and wicked, and he vexed. What at all will he say and she being dead before him? Whether or no, it will be a sharp grief to him, she to scatter and to go. He might give me a backstroke and drive me out from the door. Is it readying the dinner before you, or wringing out a shirt for the Sunday like any good slave of a wife, you are used to find your woman, McDonough? Go look for her in the fair so, if it is gadding up and down is her habit, and you being gone out from her sight. Tell out what harbour were you yourself in from the day you left Cregroostha? She is gone away from you, McDonough. Throwing a lie in a decent woman's face will not bring you to the truth. Leave your hand off me and open the room door, and you will see am I telling you any lie. It is not the sound of the pipes will rouse her, or any sound made in this world at all. She is gone and she is not living. Yesterday, and the bells ringing, she turned her face to the south and died away. It was at the hour of noon I knew and was aware she was gone. A great loss it to be at the time of the fair, and all the lodgers that would have come into the house. The makings of a child that came before its time, God save the mark! She made a bad battle at the last. I thought she would drag another while. There was no time for the priest itself to overtake her, or to put the little dress of the Virgin in her hand at the last gasp of death. 
 It is queer and wild he is, cutting his teeth and the hair standing on him. To draw to silence the whole fair did. Every person is moving towards this house. 
 Go in through the door. The boards are around her and a clean quilt over them. Have a care not to leave down your hands on it, and they maybe being soiled with the fair. 
 
