 Is there e'er a sign of McDonough to be coming?
 A great wonder he not to have come, and this the fair day of Galway.
 Is there no neighbour at all will do that much, and she being gone out of the world?
 Did you do as I bade you, asking Cross Ford to send in a couple of the boys she has?
 What did she say hearing that?
 There will no help come burying her so.
 Whether or no, she was a little giddy. But that is the way with McDonough. He is sometimes an unruly lad, but he would near knock you with his pride.
 It is not to humour her the Union men will, and they carrying her to where they will sink her into the ground, unless it might be McDonough would come back, and he having money in his hand, to bring in some keeners and some hired men.
 What makes you say that to be certain?
 What day was that?
 He has time and plenty to be back in Galway ere this.
 He is a great one to squeeze the pipes surely. There is no place ever he went into but he brought the whip out of it.
 He did, and from beyond the world, where he befriended some in the forths of the Danes. It was they taught him their trade. I heard tell, he to throw the pipes up on top of the rafters, they would go sounding out tunes of themselves.
 He is a great musician surely.
 He to be in the fair to-day and to take the fancy, you would hear the nailed boots of the frieze-coated man footing steps on the sidewalk.
 I wonder he did not come. Could it be he might be made away with for the riches he brought from Cregroostha? It would be a strange thing now, he to be lying and his head broke, at the butt of a wall, and the woman he thought the whole world of to be getting her burial from the workhouse. _(A sound of pipes.)_
 _(Getting up.)_ I'm in dread of him coming in the house. He is a hasty man and wicked, and he vexed. What at all will he say and she being dead before him? Whether or no, it will be a sharp grief to him, she to scatter and to go. He might give me a backstroke and drive me out from the door.
 Is it readying the dinner before you, or wringing out a shirt for the Sunday like any good slave of a wife, you are used to find your woman, McDonough?
 Go look for her in the fair so, if it is gadding up and down is her habit, and you being gone out from her sight.
 Tell out what harbour were you yourself in from the day you left Cregroostha?
 She is gone away from you, McDonough.
 Throwing a lie in a decent woman's face will not bring you to the truth.
 Leave your hand off me and open the room door, and you will see am I telling you any lie.
 It is not the sound of the pipes will rouse her, or any sound made in this world at all.
 She is gone and she is not living.
 Yesterday, and the bells ringing, she turned her face to the south and died away. It was at the hour of noon I knew and was aware she was gone. A great loss it to be at the time of the fair, and all the lodgers that would have come into the house.
 The makings of a child that came before its time, God save the mark! She made a bad battle at the last.
 I thought she would drag another while. There was no time for the priest itself to overtake her, or to put the little dress of the Virgin in her hand at the last gasp of death. _McDonough goes into the room. He comes out as if affrighted, leans his head against the wall, and breaks into a prayer in Irish:_ _"An Athair tha in Naomh, dean trocaire orainn! A Dia Righ an Domhain, dean trocaire orainn! A Mhuire Mathair Dia, dean trocaire orainn!"_
 Where is the use raving? It is best for you to turn your hand to the thing has to be done.
 Quieten yourself now where it was the will of God. She herself made no outcry and no ravings. I did my best for her, laying her out and putting a middling white sheet around her. I went so far as to smoothen her hair on the two sides of her face.
 It is best for us shut the door and to keep out the noises of the fair.
 She has to be buried ere evening. There was a messenger of a clerk came laying that down.
 He sent his men to coffin her. She will be brought away in the heel of the day.
 That cannot be. It is what the man said, "This is a common lodging-house. It is right to banish the dead from the living." He has the law with him, and custom. There is no use you thinking to go outside of that.
 "There will a car be sent," he said, "and two boys from the Union for to bear her out from the house."
 You have no other way to bring her on her road. It is best for you give in to their say.
 They are after making their refusal. She was not well liked in Galway. There is no one will come to her help.
 It is no lie at all. It is as sure as the winter's frost. You have no one to draw to but yourself.
 Be whist now, or they will be angered and they hearing you outside in the fair.
 A queer thing you to speak so stiff and to be running down all around you, and your own pocket being bulky the while.
 Is it robbed and plundered you were, and you walking the road?
 Is it to lose it unknownst you did?
 That is what happened the gold yourself and the pipes had won? You made no delay doing that much. You have a great wrong done to the woman inside, where you left her burying bare.
 You have a right to bruise your knees making repentance, you that lay on the one pillow with her. You to be putting curses upon others and making attacks on them! I would make no complaint, you to be naked at your own burying and at the very hour of death, and the rain falling down on your head.
 The shadows should be lengthening in the street. Look out would you see the car to be coming.
 They are making too much delay.
 The men of the Union are coming to bring her away, McDonough. There is nothing more to be done. She will get her burial from the rates.
 That is so. What signifies she to be followed or to be going her lone, and her eyes being shut to the world?
 I was but saying it does not signify.
 There are worthier men than yourself, maybe, in storehouses and in shops.
 _(Looking out.)_ It is queer and wild he is, cutting his teeth and the hair standing on him.
 To draw to silence the whole fair did. Every person is moving towards this house. _(A murmur as of people. McDonough comes in, stands at door, looking out.)_
 Go in through the door. The boards are around her and a clean quilt over them. Have a care not to leave down your hands on it, and they maybe being soiled with the fair. _(They take off their hats and go in.)_
