 There is not. There were two or three asking for him, wanting him to bring the pipes to some spree-house at the time the fair will be at an end. 
 He not to come ere evening, the woman that is dead must go to her burying without one to follow her, or any friend at all to flatten the green scraws above her head. 
 There is not. You said to ask Pat Marlborough, and I asked him, and he said there were plenty of decent women and of well-reared women in Galway he would follow and welcome the day they would die, without paying that respect to one not belonging to the district, or that the town got no good account of the time she came. 
 What a fool I'd be asking her! I laid down to her the way it was. McDonough's wife to be dead, and he far out in the country, and no one belonging to her to so much as lift the coffin over the threshold of the door. 
 She put a big laugh out of her, and it is what she said: "May the devil die with her, and it is well pleased the street will be getting quit of her, and it is hard say on what mountain she might be grazing now." 
 It is too lofty McDonough was, and too high-minded, bringing in a woman was maybe no lawful wife, or no honest child itself, but it might be a bychild or a tinker's brat, and he giving out no account of her generations or of her name. 
 Indeed he is no way humble, but looking for attendance on her, as if she was the youngest and the greatest in the world. 
 He to come back at this time it is certain he will bring a fist-full of money. 
 A troop of sheep-shearers that are on the west side of the fair, looking for hire from the grass farmers. I heard them laying down they met with McDonough at the big shearing at Cregroostha. 
 This day week for the world. 
 Great dancing they had and a great supper at the time the shearing was at an end and the fleeces lodged in the big sacks. It is McDonough played his music through the night-time. It is what I heard them saying, "He went out of that place weightier than he went in." 
 His father was better again, they do be saying. It was from the other side he got the gift. 
 He could do no more with them than what McDonough himself can do--may ill luck attend him! It is inhuman tunes he does be making; unnatural they are. 
 There is no person can be safe from him the time he will put his "come hither" upon them. I give you my word he set myself dancing reels one time in the street, and I making an attack on him for keeping the little lads miching from school. That was a great scandal to put upon a decent woman. 
 You would, and it's likely he'd play a notion into the skulls of the pampootied boys from Aran, they to be kings of France or of Germany, till they'd go lift their head to the clouds and go knocking all before them. And the police it is likely laughing with themselves, as if listening to the talk of the blackbird would be perched upon a blessed bush. 
 Whist, I tell you! It's the sound of the pipes. It is McDonough, it is no other one. 
 Let you make an attack upon himself before he will have time to make his own attack.
 _(Venturing near.)_ Do not go fret after her, McDonough. She could not go through the world forever, and travelling the world. It might be that trouble went with her.
 That you may never be cross till you will meet with your own death! What way could any person do that?
 You are talking fool's talk and giving out words that are foolishness! There is no one at all can put away from his road the bones and the thinness of death.
 _(At door.)_ Is it a niggard you are grown to be, McDonough, and you with riches in your hand? Is it against a new wedding you are keeping your pocket stiff, or to buy a house and an estate, that it fails you to call in hired women to make a right keening, and a few decent boys to lift her through the streets?
 If you had means, is it? I heard by true telling that you have money and means. "At the sheep-shearers' dance a high lady held the plate for the piper; a sovereign she put in it out of her hand, and there was no one of the big gentry but followed her. There never was seen so much riches in any hall or home." Where now is the fifty gold sovereigns you brought away from Cregroostha?
 Is it that you would begrudge it to the woman is inside?
 You could not have run through that much.
 She to be without a farthing dip for her corpse, and you after lavishing gold. 
 It was a while ago at the far corner of the fair. They were but waiting for the throng to lessen. 
 I see a hint of the livery of the poorhouse coming through the crowd. 
 You are making too much of it. Little it will signify, and we to be making clay, who was it dug a hole through the nettles or lifted down the sods over our head. 
 Some high notion he has, calling them to show honour to her as if she was the Queen of the Angels. 
