 Stand. Who goes there? Give the word. 
 Then cannot you pass here. What is your business? Who are you? Are you a true man? 
 [recoiling] A ghost! Angels and ministers of grace defend us! 
 Plague on her! She gave me two only. 
 I care not for these new-fangled plays. No man can understand a word of them. They are all talk. Will you not give me a pass for The Spanish Tragedy? 
 [overwhelmed] Gold! Oh, sir, you are a better paymaster than your dark lady. 
 Tis so, sir. And you have to consider that the most open handed of us must een cheapen that which we buy every day. This lady has to make a present to a warder nigh every night of her life. 
 Now you, sir, I dare be sworn, do not have an adventure like this twice in the year. 
 Now the Lord bless your innocence, sir, do you think you are the only pretty man in the world? A merry lady, sir: a warm bit of stuff. Go to: I'll not see her pass a deceit on a gentleman that hath given me the first piece of gold I ever handled. 
 Not all, sir. Decent bodies, many of them. 
 You judge too much by the Court, sir. There, indeed, you may say of frailty that its name is woman. 
 What strain of music, sir? I'm no musician, God knows. 
 Well, sir, it is but four words. Are you a snapper-up of such unconsidered trifles? 
 You have my lord Pembroke's trick, sir. 
 Making sonnets by moonlight. And to the same lady too. 
 Last night he stood here on your errand, and in your shoes. 
 Tis ever so, sir. 
 Is he so bad as that, sir? 
 Ay, sir: words, words, words. Mere wind, sir. We fill our bellies with the east wind, sir, as the Scripture hath it. You cannot feed capons so. 
 What manner of thing is a cadence, sir? I have not heard of it. 
 You speak strangely, sir: no offence. But, an't like you, you are a very civil gentleman; and a poor man feels drawn to you, you being, as twere, willing to share your thought with him. 
 Here comes your lady, sir. I'll to t'other end of my ward. You may een take your time about your business: I shall not return too suddenly unless my sergeant comes prowling round. Tis a fell sergeant, sir: strict in his arrest. Go'd'en, sir; and good luck! [He goes] 
