 [stupent] Marry, come up!!! Struck William Shakespear quotha! And who in the name of all the sluts and jades and light-o'-loves and fly-by-nights that infest this palace of mine, may William Shakespear be? 
 Belike you will, mistress. Have you bethought you that I am like to have your head cut off as well? 
 Save you! A likely savior, on my royal word! I had thought this fellow at least an esquire; for I had hoped that even the vilest of my ladies would not have dishonored my Court by wantoning with a baseborn servant. 
 [furious] S'blood! do I so? I will teach you -- 
 [grimly] The son of your father shall learn his place in the presence of the daughter of Harry the Eighth. 
 | Insolent dog-- | 
 | Zounds! Now by -- | [she stops to grind her teeth with rage] 
 [almost beside herself] Another word; and I begin with mine own hands the work the hangman shall finish. 
 [with dignity] Master Shakespear: it is well for you that I am a merciful prince. I make allowance for your rustic ignorance. But remember that there are things which be true, and are yet not seemly to be said (I will not say to a queen; for you will have it that I am none) but to a virgin. 
 As for you, mistress, I have yet to demand what your business is at this hour in this place, and how you come to be so concerned with a player that you strike blindly at your sovereign in your jealousy of him. 
 I absolve you as to that. You are far too plain a dealer to please me. [He rises gratefully] 
 [a terrible flash in her eye] Ha! Is it so? 
 Go [The Dark Lady tries to kiss her hand] No more. Go. [The Dark Lady goes, convulsed] You have been cruel to that poor fond wretch, Master Shakespear. 
 You have an overweening conceit of yourself, sir, that displeases your Queen. 
 I hope it is a boon that may be asked of a virgin Queen without offence, sir. I mistrust your forwardness; and I bid you remember that I do not suffer persons of your degree (if I may say so without offence to your father the alderman) to presume too far. 
 A boon of State already! You are becoming a courtier like the rest of them. You lack advancement. 
 [striking the tablets from his hand] Your tables begin to anger me, sir. I am not here to write your plays for you. 
 Why, sir, are there not theatres enow on the Bankside and in Blackfriars? 
 Master Shakespear: I will speak of this matter to the Lord Treasurer. 
 Master Shakespear: you speak sooth; yet cannot I in any wise mend it. I dare not offend my unruly Puritans by making so lewd a place as the playhouse a public charge; and there be a thousand things to be done in this London of mine before your poetry can have its penny from the general purse. I tell thee, Master Will, it will be three hundred years and more before my subjects learn that man cannot live by bread alone, but by every word that cometh from the mouth of those whom God inspires. By that time you and I will be dust beneath the feet of the horses, if indeed there be any horses then, and men be still riding instead of flying. Now it may be that by then your works will be dust also. 
 It may prove so. But of this I am certain (for I know my countrymen) that until every other country in the Christian world, even to barbarian Muscovy and the hamlets of the boorish Germans, have its playhouse at the public charge, England will never adventure. And she will adventure then only because it is her desire to be ever in the fashion, and to do humbly and dutifully whatso she seeth everybody else doing. In the meantime you must content yourself as best you can by the playing of those two pieces which you give out as the most damnable ever writ, but which your countrymen, I warn you, will swear are the best you have ever done. But this I will say, that if I could speak across the ages to our descendants, I should heartily recommend them to fulfil your wish; for the Scottish minstrel hath well said that he that maketh the songs of a nation is mightier than he that maketh its laws; and the same may well be true of plays and interludes. [The clock chimes the first quarter. The warder returns on his round] And now, sir, we are upon the hour when it better beseems a virgin queen to be abed than to converse alone with the naughtiest of her subjects. Ho there! Who keeps ward on the queen's lodgings tonight? 
 See that you keep it better in future. You have let pass a most dangerous gallant even to the very door of our royal chamber. Lead him forth; and bring me word when he is safely locked out; for I shall scarce dare disrobe until the palace gates are between us. 
 How! to my bed! 
 That is my prayer to posterity. Forget not your own to God; and so goodnight, Master Will. 
