 [rubbing her hands as if washing them] Out, damned spot. You will mar all with these cosmetics. God made you one face; and you make yourself another. Think of your grave, woman, not ever of being beautified. All the perfumes of Arabia will not whiten this Tudor hand. 
 [echoing him] Mary! Mary! Who would have thought that woman to have had so much blood in her! Is it my fault that my counsellors put deeds of blood on me? Fie! If you were women you would have more wit than to stain the floor so foully. Hold not up her head so: the hair is false. I tell you yet again, Mary's buried: she cannot come out of her grave. I fear her not: these cats that dare jump into thrones though they be fit only for men's laps must be put away. Whats done cannot be undone. Out, I say. Fie! a queen, and freckled! 
 Where am I? What art thou? 
 [outraged] Profane fellow: how do you dare? 
 Have I been in speech with you here? 
 I have walked in my sleep. 
 [with cold majesty] Know you to whom you speak, sir, that you dare express yourself so saucily? 
 Sir: you are overbold. Season your admiration for a while with -- 
 Fellow: do you dare mimic me to my face? 
 A very vile jingle of esses. I said "Season your--" 
 You said "for a space." I said "for a while." 
 Odds my life! Are you by chance making love to me, knave? 
 You talk too much, sir. Let me warn you: I am more accustomed to be listened to than preached at. 
 A king, ha! 
 Dare you call me woman? 
 Gramercy for your sermon, sir. I hope I know my duty. 
 You spoil your heaven with your million. You are extravagant. Observe some measure in your speech. 
 And who, pray, is Ben? 
 Beware, fellow, how you presume to speak of holy things. The Queen is the head of the Church. 
 Unmeasured impudence! On your life, take your hands from me. The Dark Lady comes stooping along the terrace behind them like a running thrush. When she sees how they are employed, she rises angrily to her full height, and listens jealously. 
 We shall see that, false lying hound, you and your filthy trull. [With two vigorous cuffs, she knocks the pair asunder, sending the man, who is unlucky enough to receive a righthanded blow, sprawling an the flags] Take that, both of you! 
 [in towering wrath, throwing off her cloak and turning in outraged majesty on her assailant] High treason! 
 [recognizing her and falling on her knees in abject terror] Will: I am lost: I have struck the Queen. 
 Madam: he is but a player. Oh, I could have my hand cut off -- 
 Will: save me. Oh, save me. 
 [rising from her knees and throwing herself between them] Will: in God's name anger her no further. It is death. Madam: do not listen to him. 
 | Will: for pity's sake-- | crying out | | together 
 | She will have me whipped through | the streets. Oh God! Oh God! 
 [terrified again] In mercy, madam, hold no further discourse with him. He hath ever some lewd jest on his tongue. You hear how he useth me! calling me baggage and the like to your Majesty's face. 
 Madam: as I live and hope for salvation -- 
 [angrily]--ay, I'm as like to be saved as thou that believest naught save some black magic of words and verses--I say, madam, as I am a living woman I came here to break with him for ever. Oh, madam, if you would know what misery is, listen to this man that is more than man and less at the same time. He will tie you down to anatomize your very soul: he will wring tears of blood from your humiliation; and then he will heal the wound with flatteries that no woman can resist. 
 Madam: he is flattering you even as he speaks. 
 [wounded and desperate] He hath swore to me ten times over that the day shall come in England when black women, for all their foulness, shall be more thought on than fair ones. [To Shakespear, scolding at him] Deny it if thou canst. Oh, he is compact of lies and scorns. I am tired of being tossed up to heaven and dragged down to hell at every whim that takes him. I am ashamed to my very soul that I have abased myself to love one that my father would not have deemed fit to hold my stirrup--one that will talk to all the world about me--that will put my love and my shame into his plays and make me blush for myself there--that will write sonnets about me that no man of gentle strain would put his hand to. I am all disordered: I know not what I am saying to your Majesty: I am of all ladies most deject and wretched -- 
 Madam: I implore you give me leave to go. I am distracted with grief and shame. I -- 
