 Marry! I cannot. I have clean forgotten it. Far from it, Master Warder. I am not the same man two days together: sometimes Adam, sometimes Benvolio, and anon the Ghost. Well said, Master Warder. With your leave I will set that down in writing; for I have a very poor and unhappy brain for remembrance. 
 Methinks this is a good scene, with you on your lonely watch, and I approaching like a ghost in the moonlight. Stare not so amazedly at me; but mark what I say. I keep tryst here to-night with a dark lady. She promised to bribe the warder. I gave her the wherewithal: four tickets for the Globe Theatre. 
 My friend: present this tablet, and you will be welcomed at any time when the plays of Will Shakespear are in hand. Bring your wife. Bring your friends. Bring the whole garrison. There is ever plenty of room. To see The Spanish Tragedy one pays, my friend. Here are the means. 
 Women are thrifty, my friend. 
 I'll not believe it. Villain: wouldst tell me that my dark lady hath ever done thus before? that she maketh occasions to meet other men? Master Warder: is it not a strange thing that we, knowing that all women are false, should be amazed to find our own particular drab no better than the rest? 
 No. All false. All. If thou deny it, thou liest. 
 Prithee say that again: that about frailty: the strain of music. There is music in your soul: many of your degree have it very notably. 
 "Frailty: thy name is woman!" 
 "Thy name is woman." 
 Snapper-up of--
 Oh! Immortal phrase! 
 This man is a greater than I. Like enough: he is my near friend. But what call you his trick? No! Thou, too, Brutus! And I called him friend! Tis ever so. Twas ever so. 
 Two Gentlemen of Verona! Judas! Judas!! 
 Bad? Oh no. Human, Master Warder, human. We call one another names when we are offended, as children do. That is all. A good cadence. By your leave 
 A thing to rule the world with, friend. Tis my trade. But alas! the world for the most part will none of my thoughts. Lamplight streams from the palace door as it opens from within. "Strict in his arrest"! "Fell sergeant"! 
 O-o-o-h! 
 A Cloaked Lady gropes her way from the palace and wanders along the terrace, walking in her sleep. "All the perfumes of Arabia"! "Beautified"! "Beautified"! a poem in a single word. Can this be my Mary? 
 Why do you speak in a strange voice, and utter poetry for the first time? Are you ailing? You walk like the dead. Mary! Mary! 
 Mary, I say: art asleep? The Lady wakes; starts; and nearly faints. He catches her on his arm. I cry your mercy. I have mistook your person all this while. Methought you were my Mary: my mistress. Be not wroth with me, lady. My mistress is a marvellous proper woman. But she does not speak so well as you. "All the perfumes of Arabia"! That was well said: spoken with good accent and excellent discretion. Why, yes, fair lady. Have you forgot it? Walk ever in your sleep, fair one; for then your words drop like honey. 
 Not I, not care neither. You are some lady of the Court, belike. To me there are but two sorts of women: those with excellent voices, sweet and low, and cackling hens that cannot make me dream. Your voice has all manner of loveliness in it. Grudge me not a short hour of its music. 
 "Season your admiration for a while--" Tis music. Can you not hear? When a good musician sings a song, do you not sing it and sing it again till you have caught and fixed its perfect melody? "Season your admiration for a while": God! the history of man's heart is in that one word admiration. Admiration! 
 What was it? "Suspend your admiration for a space--" 
 Season: ay, season, season, season. Plague on my memory, my wretched memory! I must een write it down. 
 Yet tell me which was the vile jingle? You said very justly: mine own ear caught it even as my false tongue said it. "For a while" 
 Good! 
 And now be mine neither for a space nor a while, but for ever. Nay: tis you who have made the love: I but pour it out at your feet. I cannot but love a lass that sets such store by an apt word. Therefore vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman--no: I have said that before somewhere; and the wordy garment of my love for you must be fire-new -- The most are like that that do talk well. But though you spake with the tongues of angels, as indeed you do, yet know that I am the king of words -- No less. We are poor things, we men and women -- What nobler name can I tender you? How else can I love you? Yet you may well shrink from the name: have I not said we are but poor things? Yet there is a power that can redeem us. This is no sermon, but the living truth. The power I speak of is the power of immortal poesy. For know that vile as this world is, and worms as we are, you have but to invest all this vileness with a magical garment of words to transfigure us and uplift our souls til earth flowers into a million heavens. You speak now as Ben does. A learned bricklayer who thinks that the sky is at the top of his ladder, and so takes it on him to rebuke me for flying. I tell you there is no word yet coined and no melody yet sung that is extravagant and majestical enough for the glory that lovely words can reveal. It is heresy to deny it: have you not been taught that in the beginning was the Word? that the Word was with God? nay, that the Word was God? You are the head of my Church when you speak as you did at first. "All the perfumes of Arabia"! Can the Queen speak thus? They say she playeth well upon the virginals. Let her play so to me; and I'll kiss her hands. But until then, you are my Queen; and I'll kiss those lips that have dropt music on my heart. 
 
 Then cease to make my hands tremble with the streams of life you pour through them. You hold me as the lodestar holds the iron: I cannot but cling to you. We are lost, you and I: nothing can separate us now. 
 Woman: you have struck 
