 God save you. A sweep is it? 
 What brought you following me? It is not one of my own trade I came looking to meet with. It is a shelter I was searching out, where I could put on a decent appearance, rinsing my head and my features in a tin can of water. Within about a half an hour they were telling me. I suppose there might, and it being the high road from the town of Ennis. It is not in the towns I do be. I travel only gentlemen's houses. It isn't easy get company for a person has but two empty hands. I wish to the Lord it was the one thing. What is it that you know? I would sooner to be sleeping in feathers and to do no hand's turn at all, day or night. How is that now? Is it that he is taking you into his service? Of his blood now? A relation? Well, I am not without having a first cousin of my own. My own mother was not without giving out a report of my man's ways. She did, I suppose, or the thing was near him. She never was tired talking of him. It is often the likeness of Timothy was laid down to me by the teaching of my mother's mouth, since I was able to walk the floor. She thought the whole world of him. That is the same account used to be given out of Timothy. To own an estate before he would go far in age Timothy was on the road. It is letting out his land to grass farmers a man owning acres does be making his profit. It is the way I went down; my mother used to be faulting me and I not being the equal of him. Tormenting and picking at me and shouting me on the road. "You thraneen," she'd say, "you little trifle of a son! You stumbling over the threshold as if in slumber, and Timothy being as swift as a bee!" "Little he'd think of you," she'd say; "you without body and puny, not fit to lift scraws from off the field, and Timothy bringing in profit to his mother's hand, and earning prizes and rewards." "Let you hold up the same as Timothy," she'd give out, and I to stoop my shoulders the time the sun would prey upon my head. "He that is as straight and as clean as a green rush on the brink of the bog." I seen no use to be going sweating after farmers, striving to plough or to scatter seed, when I never could come anear Timothy in any sort of a way, and he, by what she was saying, able to thrash out a rick of oats in the day. So it fell out I was thrown on the ways of the world, having no skill in any trade, till there came a demand for me going aloft in chimneys, I being as thin as a needle and shrunken with weakness and want of food. So am I going around by myself. I never had a comrade lad. My own mother that drew down Timothy on me the time she'd catch me going with the lads that had their pleasure out of the world, slashing tops and pebbles, throwing and going on with games. The neighbours had it against me after, I not being friendly when we were small. The most time I am going the road it is a lonesome shadow I cast before me. My own mother that did no less, telling me she got word from Timothy he would come meet here with myself. It is certain he will bring me into his house, she having wedded secondly with a labouring man has got a job at Golden Hill in Lancashire. I would not recognise him beyond any other one. So there is within in myself. It is a bit of a salted herring. I would be delicate coming before him and the smell of it to be on me, and all the grand meats will be at his table. I wonder you would not swallow it down for to keep courage in your mind. 
 I am nearly in dread meeting Timothy, fearing I will not be pleasing to him, and I not acquainted with his habits. What way can I come before him at all? I would be better pleased you to personate me and to stand up to him in my place. If it wasn't for the hearthfires to be slackened with the springtime, and my work to be lessened with the strengthening of the sun, I'd sooner not see him till another moon is passed, or two moons. I could speak only of my trade. The boundaries of the world to be between us, I'm thinking I'd never ask to go cross them at all. What way can I keep company with him? I that was partly reared in the workhouse. And he having a star on his hat and a golden apple in his hand. He will maybe be bidding me to scour myself with soapy water all the Sundays and Holy days of the year! I tell you I am getting low hearted. I pray to the Lord to forgive me where I did not go under the schoolmaster's rod! Ah, what letting on? It is Timothy will look through me the same as if my eyes were windows, and my thoughts standing as plain as cattle under the risen sun! It is easier letting on to have knowledge than to put on manners and behaviour. I tell you I'm in shivers! My heart that is shaking like an ivy leaf! My bones that are loosened and slackened in the similitude of a rope of tow! I'd sooner meet with a lion of the wilderness or the wickedest wind of the hills! I thought it never would come to pass. I'd sooner go into the pettiest house, the wildest home and the worst! Look at here now. Let me stop along with yourself. I never let out so much of my heart to any one at all till this day. It's a pity we should be parted! I'd feel no dread and you being at my side. 
 No but Timothy that would make objection to yourself! He that would whip the world for manners and behaviour! What is that beside owning tillage, and to need no education, but to take rents into your hand? Why wouldn't he own it? "The biggest thing and the grandest," my mother would say when I would ask her what was he doing. The grandest house around the seas of Ireland he should have, beautifully made up! You would nearly go astray in it! It wouldn't be known what you could make of it at all! You wouldn't have it walked in a month! A house would be the capital of the county! One door for the rich, one door for the common! Velvet carpets rolled up, the way there would no dust from the chimney fall upon them. A hundred wouldn't be many standing in a corner of that place! A high bed of feathers, curled hair mattresses. A cover laid on it would be flowery with blossoms of gold! Your man is not so good as mine in his office or in his billet. There's a lather of sweat on myself. That's my tin can of water! 
 You are a mean savage to go keeping from me my tin can and my rag! That we may never be within the same four walls again, or come under the lintel of the one door! 
 My father's name was Melody sure enough, till he lost his life in the year of the black potatoes. You should be my mother's sister's son so, Timothy O'Harragha. Oh, I wouldn't be looking for that much from you. 
 It is in dread I am of being troublesome to yourself. You have a willing heart surely. All I would ask of you is to give me my nourishment and my bite. Ah, you are going too far in that. Indeed I was often in a house having up to twenty chimneys. Any person would go high before he would put his hand out through the top of a chimney. I saw nothing so plentiful as soot. There is not the equal of it nourishing a garden. It would turn every crop blue, being so good. Little enough I have or ever had. I wish I ever handled a coin of gold in my lifetime. I am maybe getting your meaning wrong, your tongue being a little hard and sharp because you are Englified, but I am without new learnments and so I speak flat. You are striving to put ridicule on me and to make a fool of me. That is a very unseemly thing to do! I that did not ask to go hide the bag or the brush. Customers and shops! Will you stop your funning? Let you quit mocking and making a sport of me! That is very bad acting behaviour. What way at all can you be putting such a rascally say out of your mouth? I'll take no more talk from you, I to be twenty-two degrees lower than the Hottentots! I'll take no more talk from yourself! Have a care yourself! 
 Who else would it be? What letting on? Dermot is my full name, but Darby is the name I am called. I am not, or anything of the sort. If I had would I be sitting on this floor? Thief yourself! Turn around now till I will measure your features and your face. 
 Give me a drop of your own porter so, is in the bottle. There need be no dread on you now, of you being no match for your grand man. I am well content being free of you, the way you were pictured to be. I declare to my goodness, the name of you put terror on me through the whole of my lifetime, and your image to be clogging and checking me on every side. It is great things I will be doing from this out, we two having nothing to cast up against one another. To be quit of Timothy the bogie and to get Taig for a comrade, I'm as proud as the Crown of France! There to be fineness of living in the world, why wouldn't I make it out for myself? There is magic and mastery come into me! This day has put wings to my heart! What signifies chimneys? We'll go up in them till we'll take a view of the Seven Stars! It is out beyond the hills of Burren I will cast my eye, till I'll see the three gates of Heaven! 
