 _(At door.)_ God save all here!
 Why wouldn't I be a sweep as good as yourself?
 Is it long till the coach will be passing by the cross-road beyond?
 There does be much people travelling to this place?
 It should be in this town you follow your trade?
 There's nothing but the towns, since the farmers in the country clear out their own chimneys with a bush under and a bush overhead.
 There does be more of company in the streets than you'd find on the bare road.
 Wealth to be in the family it is all one nearly with having a grip of it in your own palm.
 You to know what I know --
 It is dealing out cards through the night time I will be from this out, and making bets on racehorses and fighting-cocks through all the hours of the day.
 If I came paddling along through every place this day and the road hard under my feet, it is likely I will have my choice way leaving it.
 A horse maybe and a car or two horses, or maybe to go in the coach, and I myself sitting alongside the man came in it.
 Not at all! And I being of his own family and his blood.
 A relation I have, that is full up of money and of every whole thing.
 A first cousin, by the side of the mother.
 I wouldn't think he'd be much. To be listening to my mother giving out a report of my one's ways, you would maybe believe it is no empty skin of a man he is.
 Did she see him?
 It is often my own mother would have Dermot pictured to myself.
 A bright scholar she laid Dermot down to be. A good doing fellow for himself. A man would be well able to go up to his promise.
 To some trade of merchandise it is likely Dermot was reared. A good living man that was never any cost on his mother.
 To have the handling of silks and jewelleries and to be free of them, and of suits and the making of suits, that is the way with the big merchants of the world.
 A queer thing you to be the way you are, and he to be an upstanding gentleman.
 So my own mother used to be going on at myself, and be letting out shrieks and screeches. "What now would your cousin Dermot be saying?" every time there would come a new rent in my rags.
 The time it would fail me to follow my book or to say off my A, B, ab, to draw Dermot down on me she would. "Before he was up to your age," she would lay down, "he was fitted to say off Catechisms and to read newses. You have no more intellect beside him," she'd say, "than a chicken has its head yet in the shell."
 "It is you will be fit but to blow the bellows," my mother would say, "the time Dermot will be forging gold." I let on the book to have gone astray on me at the last. Why would I go crush and bruise myself under a weight of learning, and there being one in the family well able to take my cost and my support whatever way it might go? Dermot that would feel my keep no more than the lake would feel the weight of the duck.
 I got my living for a while by miracle and trafficking in rabbit skins, till a sweep from Limerick bound me to himself one time I was skinned with the winter. Great cruelty he gave me till I ran from him with the brush and the bag, and went foraging around for myself.
 My mother that would hit me a crack if I made free with any of the chaps of the village, saying that would not serve me with Dermot, that had a good top-coat and was brought up to manners and behaviour.
 I took my own way after, fitting myself for sports and funning, against the time the rich man would stretch out his hand. Going with wild lads and poachers I was, till they left me carrying their snares in under my coat, that I was lodged for three months in the gaol.
 _(Looking out of the door.)_ It is on this day I will be making acquaintance with himself. My mother that sent him a request to come meet me in this town on this day, it being the first of the summer.
 I would recognise the signs of a big man. I wish I was within in his kitchen. There is a pinch of hunger within in my heart.
 Is there nothing at all in the bag?
 Why wouldn't you use it?
 _(Showing a bottle.)_ The full of a pint I have of porter, that fell from a tinker's car.
 It is what I am thinking, I to take it fasting, it might put confusion and wildness in my head. I would wish, and I meeting with him, my wits to be of the one clearness with his own. It is not long to be waiting; it is in claret I will be quenching my thirst to-night, or in punch!
 I would not be afeard, and Dermot to come sparkling in, and seven horses in his coach.
 Any person to put orders on me, or to bid me change my habits, I'd give no heed! I'd stand up to him in the spite of his teeth!
 He to bid me read out the news of the world, taking me to be a scholar, I'd give him words that are in no books! I'd give him newses! I'd knock rights out of him or any one I ever seen.
 He to go into Court swearing witnesses and to bring me along with him to face the judges and the whole troop of the police, I'd go bail I'll be no way daunted or scared.
 I that will shape crampy words the same as any scholar at all! I'll let on to be a master of learning and of Latin!
 Ah, what's manners but to refuse no man a share of your bite and to keep back your hand from throwing stones?
 Is it to come following after me you would, before the face of Dermot?
 Dermot to see me in company with the like of you! I wouldn't for the whole world he should be aware I had ever any traffic with chimneys or with soot. It would not be for his honour you to draw anear him!
 Dermot that is better again. He that would write and dictate to you at the one time!
 I would never believe him to own an estate.
 Ah, what could be before selling out silks and satins. There is many an estated lord couldn't reach you out a fourpenny bit.
 What is that beside having a range of shops as wide maybe as the street beyond?
 Muslin and gauze, cambric and linen! Canton crossbar! Glass windows full up of ribbons as gaudy as the crooked bow in the sky! Sovereigns and shillings in and out as plenty as to riddle rape seed. Sure them that do be selling in shops die leaving millions.
 There is the horn of the coach. Get out now till I'll prepare myself. He might chance to come seeking for me here.
 _(Holding can from him.)_ Get out I tell you! I wouldn't wish him to feel the smell of you on the breeze.
 Go wash yourself at the pump can't you?
 _(Calling after him while he takes a suit of clothes from his bag.)_ I'm not like yourself! I have good clothes to put on me, what you haven't got! A body-coat my mother made out--she lost up to three shillings on it,--and a hat--and a speckled blue cravat. _(He hastily throws off his sweep's smock and cap, and puts on clothes. As he does he sings:)_ All round my hat I wore a green ribbon, All round my hat for a year and a day; And if any one asks me the reason I wore it I'll say that my true love went over the sea! All in my hat I will stick a blue feather The same as the birds do be up in the tree; And if you would ask me the reason I do it I'll tell you my true love is come back to me! _(He washes his face and wipes it, looking at himself in the tin can. He catches sight of a straw hat passing window.)_ Who is that? A gentleman? _(He draws back.)_ _(Darby comes in. He has changed his clothes and wears a straw hat and light coat and trousers. He is looking for a necktie which he had dropped and picks up. His back is turned to Taig who is standing at the other door.)_ 
 _(Awed.)_ It cannot be that you are Dermot Melody?
 It is yourself I am come here purposely to meet with.
 _(Sheepishly.)_ I am that. I am sorry indeed it failed me to be out before you in the street.
 I wouldn't wish to be anyway troublesome to you. I am badly worthy of you.
 Oh, it would be hard for _you_ to be that. Nothing you could put on me would be any hardship at all, if it was to walk steel thistles.
 Any little job at all I could do for you
 I will do that. I will be your serving man.
 It's my born duty to do that much. I'll bring your dinner before you, if I can be anyway pleasing to you; you that is used to wealthy people.
 You are a rare good man, nothing short of it, and you going as you did so high in the world.
 Having full and plenty of every good thing.
 _(Weeping.)_ It is a very unkind thing to go drawing chimneys down on me and soot, and you having all that ever was!
 To be casting up my trade against me, I being poor and hungry, and you having coins and tokens from all the goldpits of the world.
 To speak despisingly, not pitiful. And I thinking the chimney sweeping would be forgot and not reproached to me, if you have handled the fooleries and watches of the world, that you don't know the end of your riches!
 You to have the millions of King Solomon, you have no right to be putting reflections on me! I would never behave that way, and housefuls to fall into my hand.
 There you are going on again. Is it to the customers in your shops you will be giving out that it was my lot to go through the world as a sweep?
 Striving to blacken my face again at the time I had it washed pure white. You surely have a heart of marble.
 If you are my full cousin Dermot Melody I'll make you quit talking of soot!
 Have a care now!
 Is it _you_ it is?
 What call had you letting on to be Dermot Melody?
 Are you a man owning riches and shops and merchandise?
 Have you teems of money in the bank?
 You thief you!
 I am personating no one but myself.
 Covering yourself with choice clothing for to deceive me and to lead me astray!
 Letting on to be Dermot Melody! You that are but the cull and the weakling of a race! It is a queer game you played on me and a crooked game. I never would have brought my legs so far to meet with the sooty likes of you!
 I never was called but Taig. Timothy was a sort of a Holy day name.
 It is, or our mothers before us.
 So was my own mother of the McGarritys. It is sisters they were sure enough.
 You no better than myself! And the prayers I used to be saying for you, and you but a sketch and an excuse of a man!
 Our mothers picturing us to one another as if we were the best in the world.
 Wouldn't you say now mothers to be a terror?
 Where is the great quality dinner yourself was to give me, having seven sorts of dressed meat? Pullets and bacon I was looking for, and to fall on an easy life.
 We have nothing to do but to starve with the hunger, and you being as bare as myself.
 All we have to do is to crawl to the poorhouse gate. Or to go dig a pit in the graveyard, as it is short till we'll be stretched there with the want of food.
 Give me a divide of it.
 That is so. _(Drinks.)_ I'll strive no more to fit myself for high quality relations. I am free from patterns of high up cousins from this out. I'll be a pattern to myself.
 To be thinking of you being in the world was a holy terror to myself. I give you my word you came through my sleep the same as a scarecrow or a dragon.
 I'm in dread of neither bumble or bagman or bugaboo! I will regulate things from myself from this out.
 It is to the harbours of America we will work our way across the wideness of the sea. It is well able we should be to go mounting up aloft in ropes. Come on Darby out of this!
 Be easy now. We are maybe not clear of the chimneys yet.
