 Once for all, Ermyntrude, I cannot afford to maintain you in your present extravagance. 
 An English clergyman's daughter should be able to live quite respectably and comfortably on an allowance of £150 a year, wrung with great difficulty from the domestic budget. 
 That does not affect my emoluments to the extent of enabling me to support a daughter whose extravagance would disgrace a royal personage. 
 What do you mean by it, Miss? Is that the way to talk to a father? Your marriage was a most disastrous imprudence. It gave you habits that are absolutely beyond your means--I mean beyond my means: you have no means. Why did you not marry Matthews: the best curate I ever had? I had to do the best for you, my child. Roosenhonkers-Pipstein was a millionaire. He came from America. Of course he was a millionaire. Besides, he proved to my solicitors that he had fifteen million dollars when you married him. O Mammon, Mammon! I am punished now for bowing the knee to him. Is there nothing left of your settlement? Fifty thousand dollars a year it secured to you, as we all thought. Only half the securities could be called speculative. The other half were gilt-edged. What has become of it all? Ermyntrude: what expressions! Squalid! Comfort!! Then, my dear, you had better become lady's maid to a princess until you can find another millionaire to marry you. What! Come back. Come back this instant. 
 Oh, very well: I have nothing more to say. 
 Insane, senseless extravagance! 
 Worthlessness!! 
 I will not bear it any longer. Dresses, hats, furs, gloves, motor rides: one bill after another: money going like water. No restraint, no self-control, no decency. 
 I say, no decency! 
 Nice state of things we are coming to! A pretty world! But I simply will not bear it. She can do as she likes. I wash my hands of her: I am not going to die in the workhouse for any good-for-nothing, undutiful, spendthrift daughter; and the sooner that is understood by everybody the better for all par - 
 A hotel sitting room. A table in the centre. On it a telephone. Two chairs at it, opposite one another. Behind it, the door. The fireplace has a mirror in the mantelpiece. A spinster Princess, hatted and gloved, is ushered in by the hotel manager, spruce and artifically bland by professional habit, but treating his customer with a condescending affability which sails very close to the east wind of insolence. 
