[very shy and nervous.] Oh, please don't mention it. This is quite nice. Very nice. Thank you very much. 
 Oh no. This will do very well. She takes of her gloves and hat: puts them on the table; and sits down. 
 Oh, thank you, I don't want anything. The telephone is so difficult: I am not accustomed to it. 
 Oh, thank you. Yes: I should like some tea, if I might--if it would not be too much trouble. He goes out. The telephone rings. The Princess starts out of her chair, terrified, and recoils as far as possible from the instrument. 
 Oh dear! [It rings again. She looks scared. It rings again. She approaches it timidly. It rings again. She retreats hastily. It rings repeatedly. She runs to it in desperation and puts the receiver to her ear.] Who is there? What do I do? I am not used to the telephone: I don't know how--What! Oh, I can hear you speaking quite distinctly. [She sits down, delighted, and settles herself for a conversation.] How wonderful! What! A lady? Oh! a person. Oh, yes: I know. Yes, please, send her up. Have my servants finished their lunch yet? Oh no: please don't disturb them: I'd rather not. It doesn't matter. Thank you. What? Oh yes, it's quite easy. I had no idea--am I to hang it up just as it was? Thank you. [She hangs it up.] Ermyntrude enters, presenting a plain and staid appearance in a long straight waterproof with a hood over her head gear. She comes to the end of the table opposite to that at which the Princess is seated. 
 Excuse me. I have been talking through the telephone: and I heard quite well, though I have never ventured before. Won't you sit down? 
 Oh no: you mustn't think I want one. It's so unpatriotic to want anything now, on account of the war, you know. I sent my maid away as a public duty; and now she has married a soldier and is expecting a war baby. But I don't know how to do without her. I've tried my very best; but somehow it doesn't answer: everybody cheats me; and in the end it isn't any saving. So I've made up my mind to sell my piano and have a maid. That will be a real saving, because I really don't care a bit for music, though of course one has to pretend to. Don't you think so? 
 I'm so glad you see it in that way. Er--you won't mind my asking, will you?--how did you lose your place? 
 Oh yes, of course. But how -- 
 Oh please say no more. Don't think about it. So tactless of me to mention it. 
 Do you think you could be happy with me? I attach such importance to that. 
 You must not expect too much. There is my uncle. He is very severe and hasty; and he is my guardian. I once had a maid I liked very much; but he sent her away the very first time. 
 Oh, something she did. I am sure she had never done it before; and I know she would never have done it again, she was so truly contrite and nice about it. 
 Well, she wore my jewels and one of my dresses at a rather improper ball with her young man; and my uncle saw her. 
[struck by the inference] I suppose he must have been. I wonder! You know, it's very sharp of you to find that out. I hope you are not too sharp. 
[taking them] Do archdeacons have maids? How curious! 
[reading them] The daughter says you are in every respect a treasure. The Archdeacon says he would have kept you if he could possibly have afforded it. Most satisfactory, I'm sure. 
[alarmed] Oh, I'm sure I don't know. If you like, of course; but do you think I ought to? 
 Oh well, if you think that, I daresay you're quite right. You'll excuse my mentioning it, I hope; but what wages--er--? 
 M'yes. Of course she began with less. But she had such a number of relatives to keep! It was quite heartbreaking: I had to raise her wages again and again. 
 I am sure nothing could be fairer than that. My uncle can't object to that, can he? 
 Would you? You must be frightfully courageous. 
 Oh yes, I think so. Oh certainly. I -- A waiter comes in with the tea. He places the tray on the table. 
 Oh, thank you. 
[terrified] Oh please! It doesn't matter. 
[rising anxiously] Oh! am I in the way? 
 Oh no. I am quite satisfied. Please -- 
[intimidated] Oh no: please don't think that. I only meant -- 
 Oh yes. You are quite right -- 
 It's wonderful! How have you the courage? 
 How I wish I could! The most dreadful thing of all I have to go through myself. 
 I'm going to be married. I'm to be met here and married to a man I never saw. A boy! A boy who never saw me! One of the sons of the Inca of Perusalem. 
 I don't know. They haven't settled which. It's a dreadful thing to be a princess: they just marry you to anyone they like. The Inca is to come and look at me, and pick out whichever of his sons he thinks will suit. And then I shall be an alien enemy everywhere except in Perusalem, because the Inca has made war on everybody. And I shall have to pretend that everybody has made war on him. It's too bad. 
 Oh, how can you say that! I'm afraid you're not a nice woman. 
 Even if you could bear to let a man touch you, you shouldn't say so. 
 It's too dreadful to think of. I wonder you can be so coarse. I really don't think you'll suit. I feel sure now that you know more about men than you should. 
[overwhelmed] Oh, I BEG your pardon. Of course I ought to have known you would not have spoken like that if you were not married. That makes it all right, doesn't it? I'm so sorry. The Manager returns, white, scared, hardly able to speak. 
[rising distractedly] Oh, I can't, really. Oh, what shall I do? 
 Oh, send him away. Oh, I'm so afraid of the Inca. I'm not properly dressed to receive him; and he is so particular: he would order me to stay in my room for a week. Tell him to call tomorrow: say I'm ill in bed. I can't: I won't: I daren't: you must get rid of him somehow. 
 You'd never dare! 
 Oh, thank you so much. [She goes to the door. Ermyntrude, noticing that she has left her hat and gloves on the table, runs after her with them.] Oh, THANK you. And oh, please, if I must have one of his sons, I should like a fair one that doesn't shave, with soft hair and a beard. I couldn't bear being kissed by a bristly person. [She runs out, the Manager bowing as she passes. He follows her.] Ermyntrude whips off her waterproof; hides it; and gets herself swiftly into perfect trim at the mirror, before the Manager, with a large jewel case in his hand, returns, ushering in the Inca. 
