ain that I am responsible for my intentions only, and not for reflex actions over which I have no control. I promised my mother that I would never tell a lie, and that I would never make love to a married woman. I never have told a lie -- I say never. On many occasions I have resorted to prevarication; but on great occasions I have always told the truth. I regard this as a great occasion; and I won't be intimidated into breaking my promise. I solemnly declare that I did not know until this evening that Mrs. Juno was married. She will bear me out when I say that from that moment my intentions were strictly and resolutely honorable; though my conduct, which I could not control and am therefore not responsible for, was disgraceful--or would have been had this gentleman not walked in and begun making love to my wife under my very nose. When you say darling, may I ask which of us you are addressing? So she is, in a sort of a way. Sorry? Seraphita: I promised my mother -- A promise is a promise. I can't tell a deliberate lie. I know I ought to be sorry; but the flat fact is that I'm not sorry. I find that in this business, somehow or other, there is a disastrous separation between my moral principles and my conduct. Bosh! It doesn't matter about your principles if your conduct is all right. What's the good of your principles being right if they won't work? Oh yes: if, if, if. You know jolly well that self-sacrifice doesn't work either when you really want a thing. How much have you sacrificed yourself, pray? And Mrs. Juno's a very nice woman. She oughtn't to be; but she is. I mean she oughtn't to be nice to me. And you oughtn't to be nice to my wife. And your wife oughtn't to like me. And my wife oughtn't to like you. And if they do, they oughtn't to go on liking us. And I oughtn't to like your wife; and you oughtn't to like mine; and if we do we oughtn't to go on liking them. But we do, all of us. We oughtn't; but we do. How? { } What's the good of keeping on at that? I 