 gallon. Everybody has to have a car that will do thirty-five now. There ain't no trains now. They've tore up the rails and sent them to the front. Well, we have to get about somehow. Hell -- Hell, they says, is paved with good intentions. I don't mean to insinuate anything until the Defence of the Realm Act is repealed. It ain't safe. The Mayor! Where do I come in? What more can we do? We've shut up everything. The picture gallery is shut. The museum is shut. The theatres and picture shows is shut: I haven't seen a movie picture for six months. I don't now, though it drove me melancholy mad at first. I was on the point of taking a pennorth of rat poison -- Because a friend advised me to take to drink instead. That saved my life, though it makes me very poor company in the mornings, as I have noticed something about it in the papers. Heard you mention it once or twice, now I come to think of it. What are they dying for? To keep me alive, ain't it? Well, what's the good of that if I'm dead of hunger by the time they come back? Not half, they ain't. Where's the baker's sacrifice? Where's the coal merchant's? Where's the butcher's? Charging me double: that's how they sacrifice themselves. Well, I want to sacrifice myself that way too. Just double next Saturday: double and not a penny less; or no secretary for you Who are you calling a pro-German? Are you engaged? A regular marchioness, if you ask me. A human chrysanthemum, sir, believe me. Ain't it? You just wait till you see her. Here she is. They've passed me. The recruiting officer come for me. I've had my two and seven. He said that now you was on the job we'd want another million men, and he was going to take the old-age pensioners or anyone he could get. No. I come because the waiter from the hotel brought this paper. You left it on the coffeeroom breakfast-table this morning. He says he thinks this is the envelope belonging to it. Am I to give the waiter anything; or will you do it yourself? No: the one that cal