to whom you speak, sir, that you dare express yourself so saucily? Sir: you are overbold. Season your admiration for a while with -- Fellow: do you dare mimic me to my face? A very vile jingle of esses. I said "Season your--" You said "for a space." I said "for a while." Odds my life! Are you by chance making love to me, knave? You talk too much, sir. Let me warn you: I am more accustomed to be listened to than preached at. A king, ha! Dare you call me woman? Gramercy for your sermon, sir. I hope I know my duty. You spoil your heaven with your million. You are extravagant. Observe some measure in your speech. And who, pray, is Ben? Beware, fellow, how you presume to speak of holy things. The Queen is the head of the Church. Unmeasured impudence! On your life, take your hands from me. The Dark Lady comes stooping along the terrace behind them like a running thrush. When she sees how they are employed, she rises angrily to her full height, and listens jealously. We shall see that, false lying hound, you and your filthy trull. Take that, both of you! High treason! Will: I am lost: I have struck the Queen. Madam: he is but a player. Oh, I could have my hand cut off -- Will: save me. Oh, save me. Will: in God's name anger her no further. It is death. Madam: do not listen to him. | Will: for pity's sake-- | crying out | | together | She will have me whipped through | the streets. Oh God! Oh God! In mercy, madam, hold no further discourse with him. He hath ever some lewd jest on his tongue. You hear how he useth me! calling me baggage and the like to your Majesty's face. Madam: as I live and hope for salvation -- --ay, I'm as like to be saved as thou that believest naught save some black magic of words and verses--I say, madam, as I am a living woman I came here to break with him for ever. Oh, madam, if you would know what misery is, listen to this man that is more than man and less at the same time. He will tie you down to anatomize your very soul: he will wring tears of 