ee that, false lying hound, you and your filthy trull. Take that, both of you! Will: I am lost: I have struck the Queen. Madam: he is but a player. Oh, I could have my hand cut off -- Will: save me. Oh, save me. Will: in God's name anger her no further. It is death. Madam: do not listen to him. | Will: for pity's sake-- | crying out | | together | She will have me whipped through | the streets. Oh God! Oh God! In mercy, madam, hold no further discourse with him. He hath ever some lewd jest on his tongue. You hear how he useth me! calling me baggage and the like to your Majesty's face. Madam: as I live and hope for salvation -- --ay, I'm as like to be saved as thou that believest naught save some black magic of words and verses--I say, madam, as I am a living woman I came here to break with him for ever. Oh, madam, if you would know what misery is, listen to this man that is more than man and less at the same time. He will tie you down to anatomize your very soul: he will wring tears of blood from your humiliation; and then he will heal the wound with flatteries that no woman can resist. Madam: he is flattering you even as he speaks. He hath swore to me ten times over that the day shall come in England when black women, for all their foulness, shall be more thought on than fair ones. Deny it if thou canst. Oh, he is compact of lies and scorns. I am tired of being tossed up to heaven and dragged down to hell at every whim that takes him. I am ashamed to my very soul that I have abased myself to love one that my father would not have deemed fit to hold my stirrup--one that will talk to all the world about me--that will put my love and my shame into his plays and make me blush for myself there--that will write sonnets about me that no man of gentle strain would put his hand to. I am all disordered: I know not what I am saying to your Majesty: I am of all ladies most deject and wretched -- Madam: I implore you give me leave to go. I am distracted with grief and shame. I 