 a greater than I. Like enough: he is my near friend. But what call you his trick? No! Thou, too, Brutus! And I called him friend! Tis ever so. Twas ever so. Two Gentlemen of Verona! Judas! Judas!! Bad? Oh no. Human, Master Warder, human. We call one another names when we are offended, as children do. That is all. A good cadence. By your leave A thing to rule the world with, friend. Tis my trade. But alas! the world for the most part will none of my thoughts. Lamplight streams from the palace door as it opens from within. "Strict in his arrest"! "Fell sergeant"! O-o-o-h! A Cloaked Lady gropes her way from the palace and wanders along the terrace, walking in her sleep. "All the perfumes of Arabia"! "Beautified"! "Beautified"! a poem in a single word. Can this be my Mary? Why do you speak in a strange voice, and utter poetry for the first time? Are you ailing? You walk like the dead. Mary! Mary! Mary, I say: art asleep? The Lady wakes; starts; and nearly faints. He catches her on his arm. I cry your mercy. I have mistook your person all this while. Methought you were my Mary: my mistress. Be not wroth with me, lady. My mistress is a marvellous proper woman. But she does not speak so well as you. "All the perfumes of Arabia"! That was well said: spoken with good accent and excellent discretion. Why, yes, fair lady. Have you forgot it? Walk ever in your sleep, fair one; for then your words drop like honey. Not I, not care neither. You are some lady of the Court, belike. To me there are but two sorts of women: those with excellent voices, sweet and low, and cackling hens that cannot make me dream. Your voice has all manner of loveliness in it. Grudge me not a short hour of its music. "Season your admiration for a while--" Tis music. Can you not hear? When a good musician sings a song, do you not sing it and sing it again till you have caught and fixed its perfect melody? "Season your admiration for a while": God! the history of man's heart is in that one word admiration.