you are not too sharp. Do archdeacons have maids? How curious! The daughter says you are in every respect a treasure. The Archdeacon says he would have kept you if he could possibly have afforded it. Most satisfactory, I'm sure. Oh, I'm sure I don't know. If you like, of course; but do you think I ought to? Oh well, if you think that, I daresay you're quite right. You'll excuse my mentioning it, I hope; but what wages--er--? M'yes. Of course she began with less. But she had such a number of relatives to keep! It was quite heartbreaking: I had to raise her wages again and again. I am sure nothing could be fairer than that. My uncle can't object to that, can he? Would you? You must be frightfully courageous. Oh yes, I think so. Oh certainly. I -- A waiter comes in with the tea. He places the tray on the table. Oh, thank you. Oh please! It doesn't matter. Oh! am I in the way? Oh no. I am quite satisfied. Please -- Oh no: please don't think that. I only meant -- Oh yes. You are quite right -- It's wonderful! How have you the courage? How I wish I could! The most dreadful thing of all I have to go through myself. I'm going to be married. I'm to be met here and married to a man I never saw. A boy! A boy who never saw me! One of the sons of the Inca of Perusalem. I don't know. They haven't settled which. It's a dreadful thing to be a princess: they just marry you to anyone they like. The Inca is to come and look at me, and pick out whichever of his sons he thinks will suit. And then I shall be an alien enemy everywhere except in Perusalem, because the Inca has made war on everybody. And I shall have to pretend that everybody has made war on him. It's too bad. Oh, how can you say that! I'm afraid you're not a nice woman. Even if you could bear to let a man touch you, you shouldn't say so. It's too dreadful to think of. I wonder you can be so coarse. I really don't think you'll suit. I feel sure now that you know more about men than you should. Oh, I BEG your pardon. Of cour