ess, I wonder. But you can't resist me. We can forgive ourselves. Could we forgive ourselves if we let this moment slip? Never mind your conscience. Tell me how happy you are. Oh, yes, yes. Be satisfied with that. Ask for no more. Let me go. Oh, don't make me say it. Of course I know. Nothing--not life nor death nor shame nor anything can part us. A MATTER-OF-FACT MALE VOICE IN CORRIDOR. All right. This must be it. The two recover with a violent start; release one another; and spring back to opposite sides of the lounge. Sh--sh--sh! That was my husband's voice. Ridiculous! Oh! we're dreaming it all. We Ah: here we are. Sit down: I'm sure you're tired. That's right. Hullo! this sofa's quite warm. I felt it quite distinctly: I'm more thinly clad than you. What a relief to get off the ship and have a private room! That's the worst of a ship. You're under observation all the time. Well, of course there's no reason: at least I suppose not. But, you know, part of the romance of a journey is that a man keeps imagining that something might happen; and he can't do that if there are a lot of people about and it simply can't happen. No: believe me, that's a foreigner's mistake: we are the most romantic people in the world, we English. Why, my very presence here is a romance. Yes. You've guessed, of course, that I'm a married man. Thank Heaven for that! To my English mind, passion is not real passion without guilt. I am a red-blooded man, Mrs. Lunn: I can't help it. The tragedy of my life is that I married, when quite young, a woman whom I couldn't help being very fond of. I longed for a guilty passion--for the real thing--the wicked thing; and yet I couldn't care twopence for any other woman when my wife was about. Year after year went by: I felt my youth slipping away without ever having had a romance in my life; for marriage is all very well; but it isn't romance. There's nothing wrong in it, you see. No: that was what was so tame about it. I wanted to suffer. You get so sic