rbed. My dear, your song was helping me like anything to get the mood. This paper is the very deuce--to balance between the historical and the natural. Umm! Wish I thought that! Modern taste! History may go hang; they're all for tuppence-coloured sentiment nowadays. I beg your pardon, my dear; I didn't catch. That's what I'm, trying to say here. The Orpheus legend symbolizes to this day the call of Beauty! Dash it! I get so sleepy; I wish you'd tell them to make the after-dinner coffee twice as strong. How does this strike you? "Many Renaissance pictures, especially those of Botticelli, Francesca and Piero di Cosimo were inspired by such legends as that of Orpheus, and we owe a tiny gem--like Raphael 'Apollo and Marsyas' to the same Pagan inspiration." Quite. I might develop that: "We owe it our revolt against the academic; or our disgust at 'big business,' and all the grossness of commercial success. We owe -". Eh! Possibly. But--er I mustn't say that here--hardly! Most people think a lute is a sort of flute. My dear, if you're not going to sing again, d'you mind sitting down? I want to concentrate. Mind the dew! Not bad! Not bad! The Christian virtues and the dew. "How far we can trace the modern resurgence against the Christian virtues to the symbolic figures of Orpheus, Pan, Apollo, and Bacchus might be difficult to estimate, but -" She'll get her throat bad. Sounds queer at night-H'm! Phew! Beastly dream! Boof! H'm! Blanche! Blanche! Made trees-made trees! Blanche! WIFE's Where are you? I say--I I've been asleep--had a dream. Come in. I'll tell you. I dreamed I saw a-faun on that boulder blowing on a pipe. With two damned little rabbits and a fox sitting up and listening. And then from out there came our friend Orpheus playing on his confounded lute, till he actually turned that tree there into you. And gradually he-he drew you like a snake till you--er--put your arms round his neck and--er--kissed him. Boof! I woke up. Most unpleasant. Why! Your hair's down! W