I never haf had, though. You stopped because I was sad, others stop because I am gay. I am not fond of men at all. When you know--you are not fond of them. I expect you are not the last at that. You see in them what you haf in yourself, I think. It is the same too, perhaps, with--the enemy. Ah! You are not a mean man. How I hate mean men! Oh! You are a babee--a good babee aren't you? But I li-ke you for it. It is so good to find a ni-ice man. Rooshian? No. The town is so beeg. Were you at the concert before you spoke to me? I too. I lofe music. I go there always when I haf the money. Well, I haf just one shilling now! May. Well, I call myself that. It is no good asking yours. I haf reason to be, don't you think? Well, I haf a lot of reasons to be afraid all my time. I am dreadfully nervous now; I am not trusding anybody. I suppose you haf been killing lots of Germans? But you would be very glad if you had killed some. Oh! It is frightful. I expect I haf my brothers killed. News? No indeed, no news of anybody in my country. I might not haf a country; all that I ever knew is gone; fader, moder, sisters, broders, all; never any more I shall see them, I suppose, now. The war it breaks and breaks, it breaks hearts. Do you know what I was thinking when you came up to me? I was thinking of my native town, and the river in the moonlight. If I could see it again I would be glad. Were you ever homeseeck? Ah! Yees! Yees! You are all comrades there. What is it like for me here, do you think, where everybody hates and despises me, and would catch me and put me in prison, perhaps. You are the first who has been kind to me for so long! I will tell you the truth--I am not Rooshian at all --I am German. Another man said that to me. But he was thinkin' of his fun. You are a veree ni-ice boy; I am so glad I met you. You see the good in people, don't you? That is the first thing in the world--because--there is really not much good in people, you know. Cyneec? How long do you think I wo