 Some voice! The curtain rises. In the armchair the PROFESSOR is yawning, tall, thin, abstracted, and slightly grizzled in the hair. He has a pad of paper over his knee, ink on the stool to his right and the Encyclopedia volume on the stand to his left-barricaded in fact by the article he is writing. He is reading a page over to himself, but the words are drowned in the sound of the song his WIFE is singing in the next room, partly screened off by the curtain. She finishes, and stops. His voice can then be heard conning the words of his article. What's that girl's name? Aha! Miss Hellgrove, I want to say I thought that fine--fine. Fine. It quite got my soft spots. Emotional. Fine! MISS H. Oh! Mr Frust; it means so much to me. Thank you! Er--fine! Where's Mr Flatway? Mr Fleetway, I want to say I thought your Orphoos very remarkable. Fine. There wasn't much to it, but what there was was fine. Mr Toone. Mr Toone, I was very pleased with your Professor--quite a character-study. Yes, sir! I thought it fine. Who plays the goat? MISSHOPKins, I guess your fawn was fine. Mr Foreson, I thought the way you fixed that tree was very cunning; I certainly did. Got a match? MISS H. Oh! Mr Vane--do you think? He seemed quite--Oh! Mr Vane If only - Mr Vane, we got little Miggs on contract? Well, I liked that little pocket piece fine. But I'm blamed if I know what it's all about. Ye-ep. Little Miggs'd be fine in "Pop goes the Weasel." Get him on the 'phone, and put it into rehearsal right now. Guess we can't take liberties with our public, Mr Vane. They want pep. Give her the part of the 'tweeny in "Pop goes". We-ell! I certainly thought she was fine. Now, you 'phone up Miggs, and get right along with it. I've only one rule, sir! Give the Public what it wants; and what the Public wants is punch and go. They've got no use for Beauty, Allegory, all that high-brow racket. I know 'em as I know my hand. Now, see here, Mr Blewitt Vane, is this my theatre? I tell you, I can't afford luxuries