r! My father's name was Melody sure enough, till he lost his life in the year of the black potatoes. You should be my mother's sister's son so, Timothy O'Harragha. Oh, I wouldn't be looking for that much from you. It is in dread I am of being troublesome to yourself. You have a willing heart surely. All I would ask of you is to give me my nourishment and my bite. Ah, you are going too far in that. Indeed I was often in a house having up to twenty chimneys. Any person would go high before he would put his hand out through the top of a chimney. I saw nothing so plentiful as soot. There is not the equal of it nourishing a garden. It would turn every crop blue, being so good. Little enough I have or ever had. I wish I ever handled a coin of gold in my lifetime. I am maybe getting your meaning wrong, your tongue being a little hard and sharp because you are Englified, but I am without new learnments and so I speak flat. You are striving to put ridicule on me and to make a fool of me. That is a very unseemly thing to do! I that did not ask to go hide the bag or the brush. Customers and shops! Will you stop your funning? Let you quit mocking and making a sport of me! That is very bad acting behaviour. What way at all can you be putting such a rascally say out of your mouth? I'll take no more talk from you, I to be twenty-two degrees lower than the Hottentots! I'll take no more talk from yourself! Have a care yourself! Who else would it be? What letting on? Dermot is my full name, but Darby is the name I am called. I am not, or anything of the sort. If I had would I be sitting on this floor? Thief yourself! Turn around now till I will measure your features and your face. Give me a drop of your own porter so, is in the bottle. There need be no dread on you now, of you being no match for your grand man. I am well content being free of you, the way you were pictured to be. I declare to my goodness, the name of you put terror on me through the whole of my lifetime, and your ima