iddy. But that is the way with McDonough. He is sometimes an unruly lad, but he would near knock you with his pride. It is not to humour her the Union men will, and they carrying her to where they will sink her into the ground, unless it might be McDonough would come back, and he having money in his hand, to bring in some keeners and some hired men. What makes you say that to be certain? What day was that? He has time and plenty to be back in Galway ere this. He is a great one to squeeze the pipes surely. There is no place ever he went into but he brought the whip out of it. He did, and from beyond the world, where he befriended some in the forths of the Danes. It was they taught him their trade. I heard tell, he to throw the pipes up on top of the rafters, they would go sounding out tunes of themselves. He is a great musician surely. He to be in the fair to-day and to take the fancy, you would hear the nailed boots of the frieze-coated man footing steps on the sidewalk. I wonder he did not come. Could it be he might be made away with for the riches he brought from Cregroostha? It would be a strange thing now, he to be lying and his head broke, at the butt of a wall, and the woman he thought the whole world of to be getting her burial from the workhouse. I'm in dread of him coming in the house. He is a hasty man and wicked, and he vexed. What at all will he say and she being dead before him? Whether or no, it will be a sharp grief to him, she to scatter and to go. He might give me a backstroke and drive me out from the door. Is it readying the dinner before you, or wringing out a shirt for the Sunday like any good slave of a wife, you are used to find your woman, McDonough? Go look for her in the fair so, if it is gadding up and down is her habit, and you being gone out from her sight. Tell out what harbour were you yourself in from the day you left Cregroostha? She is gone away from you, McDonough. Throwing a lie in a decent woman's face will not bring you to the t