a bush. Is it seeking for a share of Darmer's wealth you are come? You are going the wrong road to reach to it. No person at all would stretch out his hand to a lad would be rambling and walking the world, and it in its darkness and sleep, and be drowsing and miching from labour through the hours the sun has command of. Did his anger anyway cool down? Is it that you are about to part Jubair your dog? Is it that you are without dread of robbers coming for to knock in your skull with a stone? Or maybe out in the night it is to burn you out of the house they would. Mike Merrick the huckster has an apple garden bought against the harvest. He should likely be seeking for a dog. There do be little lads passing to the school. Is it that you are tired and wore out carrying the load of your wealth? I would never go so far as robbery, but to bid it welcome I would, and it coming fair and easy into my hand. That is a master I'd be willing to engage with, he to give me my victuals and my ease. You'd be best without it. It is the weight of it is bowing you to your grave. When things are vexing your mind and you are trouble minded they'll be going through your head in the night time. There is a big shift and a great change in you since yesterday. There is not the half of you in it. You have the cut of the misfortune. Give over now your load to myself before the coming of the dusk. The way you are there'll be nothing left of you within three days. There is no way with you but death. I see no other sign. He is a gone man surely. His understanding warped and turned backward. To see him blighted the way he is would stir the heart of a stone. Twice a child and only once a man. He is turned to be innocent with age. So we could do that, and he to come to his end in the bad place, God save the mark! What way would we be sitting here watching it, the same as a hen on a pebble of flint, through a quarter or it might be three quarters of a year? He might drag for a good while yet, and live 