and for us meeting here on every Monday to make sure we are taking different sides on every question may turn up, and giving every abuse to one another in print, there is no person would pay his penny for the two of them, or it may be for the one of them. There are some people so cantankerous they will heat themselves in argument as to which side might be right or wrong in a war, or if wars should be in it at all, or hangings. Now all the kingdoms of the earth to go struggling on one wrong side or another, or to bring themselves down to dust and ashes, it would not break our friendship. In all the years past there never did a cross word rise between us. It will be long indeed before you will be followed to the grave. You didn't live no length yet. You are too fresh to go out and to forsake your wife and your family. There is a draught of air coming in the window. I will put on my coat so. There is no use giving provocation to a cold. See can you baffle that draught of air, John. Two columns of the Tribune as empty yet as anything you could see. I had them kept free for the Bishop's speech and he didn't come after. In the years past there used always to be something happening such as famines, or the invention of printing. The whole world has got very slack. Ah, I might stick in a bit of invention sometimes, when I'm put to the pin of my collar. Ah, what is it but a white sin. Sure it tells every person the same thing. It doesn't tell many lies, it goes somewhere a near it. So have I a press of the sort, and shelves in it. I am after going through them to-day. I made a thought and I searching a while ago. I was thinking it would be a very nice thing to show respect to yourself, and friendliness, putting down a short account of you and of all you have done for your family and for the town. Is that so? And another thing. I not only thought to write it but I am after writing it. I never was one to spare myself in anything that could benefit a friend. I have a mind to rea