 me be going on where I might find my bed, I suppose I might not. I'd as lief keep my countenance and my run. Is it that you are asking it of me? I'll toss you for it. Leave it alone so. Head or harp? Take your chance or leave it. That is poor courage. You didn't make it but with yourself. It might turn back fresh and hearty where you gave it so long a rest. Here now. I'll make my bet so according to a dream I had. It is on a red horse I will put it to-morrow. I'll win surely following my dream. I'm in dread of that. All turns to the man is rich. You said no and I'll take no. Let me go out from you tempting me. Harps it is. I win. I'll toss you for another. Where's the stakes? Hurry on or I won't stop. Come on so. Spades are trumps. Who is that stirring me? Do not be rousing me, where I am striving to catch a hold of the tail of my last dream. I never asked and never looked for it. A bald cat there was in the dream, was keeping watch over jewelleries in a cave. I was thinking to go travel my road. Whose life is that? Outside of his knowledge is it? Is it to steal it I should? Ah, what call have I to do that much and maybe put myself in danger of the judge, for the sake of a man is without sense. I have no mind to be brought within the power of the law. It might be guarded by a serpent in a tree, or by unnatural things would be in the similitude of cats. I would not wish a head to follow me and leap up on the table and wrestle me, or to drink against me with its gory mouth. I'll go do your bidding so. I will go bring out the crock. I'll do that. Here it is now. I tell you I never since the day I was born could be charged with the weight of a brass pin! So I will make it out. Where now is Darmer? What are you saying? The dog gone is it? What is that to you? Let me mind my own business. To make a search I must in that dog's kennel of straw. Let me out! I tell you I have a thing concealed in the box. Where at all is it vanished? Where at all is it? Not a one pound left!