ake it I do. It is often I gave myself a promise the time there will be no sound from it, I will give in to nourish myself, I will rise out of misery. But every time I will try it, I will hear a little clatter that tells me there is some space left; some small little hole or gap. Weightier it gets and weightier, but there will always be that little sound. I thought to stop it one time, putting in a fistful of hayseed; but I felt in my heart that was not dealing fair and honest with myself, and I rose up and shook it out again, rising up from my bed in the night time. I near got my death with the cold and the draught fell on me doing that. Hearken now. I am old and the long road behind me. You are young and in your strength. It is you is rich, it is I myself that is poor. You know well, you to get the offer, you would not change your lot with my own. Isn't it a great pity there to be that hollow within in my gallon, and the little coin that would likely just fill it up, to be going out of the house? You might never find so good a way to open Heaven to yourself with a charity. To be bringing peace to an old man that has not long to live in the world! You wouldn't think now how quiet I would sleep, and the good dreams would be going through me, and that gallon jar to be full and to make no sound the time I would roll it on the floor. That would be a great deed for one little pound piece to do! I would not dare put anything at all upon a chance. It would make such a good appearance in the little gap! No, I'm in dread I might lose. I to lose, you may kill me on the moment! My heart is driven down in the sole of my shoe! There is some shiver forewarning me I will lose! I made a strong oath I never would give in again to try any sort of chance. It was through my luck leaving me I swore against betting and gaming. Well--maybe - I dare not. No--stop--wait a minute. I might not lose. I'll chance it! You cannot go back of your word. Heads! I say heads! My bitter grief! Ochone!