ings easy. There never will. What are the fights of politics and parties beside living neighbourly with one another, and to go peaceable to the grave, our selves that are the oldest residents in the Square. Ah, when the age would be getting up on you, you wouldn't be getting younger. But it's yourself that is as full of spirit as a four-year-old. I wish I had a sovereign for every year you will reign after me in the Square. Take care might it be open--no, but a pane that is out. There is a very chilly breeze sweeping in. I'll do the same myself. It is hard to banish a sore throat. That's the same cause has left myself with so wide a gap. You are a better hand than what I am at filling odd spaces would be left bare. It is often I think the news you put out comes partly from your own brain, and the prophecies you lay down about the weather and the crops. I might maybe make an attack on the Tribune for that. I spent a good while this evening searching through the shelves of the press I have in the office. I write an article an odd time, when there is nothing doing, that might come handy in a hurry. But it's hard find a thing would be suitable, unless you might dress it up again someway fresh. That is a strange thing now! I had it in my mind to do the very same service to yourself. Your worth and your generosity and the way you have worked the Tribune for your own and for the public good. You had not much time for that. Neither would I spare myself. I have my article wrote. I will do the same thing. There's nothing I have said in it but what you will like to be hearing. Here is my one. I was thinking I had it lost. "It was in this parish and district he spent the most part of his promising youth--Richly stored with world-wide knowledge." "To lay down his mind on paper it would be hard to beat him." So will my own printer be lengthening out the words for me according to the type and the letters of the alphabet he will have plentiful and to spare. What's that? I never was