I would have to sell, where it might be thrown off the track. And where would be the use sending the couple of little lambs I have? It is likely there is no one would ask me where was I going. When the weight is not in them, they won't carry the price. Sure, the grass I have is no good, but seven times worse than the road. Ah, there won't be many in it, I'm thinking. There isn't a hungrier village in Connacht, they were telling me, and it's poor the look of it as well. The sort that will be in it will be a bad sort--sievemakers and tramps and neuks. You are apt to be going there on the train, I suppose? It is well to be you, Mr. Halvey, having a good place in the town, and the price of your fare, and maybe six times the price of it, in your pocket. It's as good for him to have a woman will keep the door open before him and his victuals ready and a quiet tongue in her head. Not like that little Tartar of my own. It might chance to be some prisoner they would be bringing to the train. Nothing at all to see. It would be best for us to have stopped where we were. Will you tighten the knots I have tied, Peter Tannian! I am in dread they might slacken or fail. It would seem to be putting very wild unruly thoughts a-through me, stirring up whatever spleen or whatever relics was left in me by the nature of the dog. There does great strength come at the time the wits would be driven out of a person. I never was handled by a policeman--but once--and never hit a blow on any man. I would not wish to destroy my neighbour or to have his blood on my hands. The way I have this fixed, there is no person will be the worse for me. I to rush down the street and to meet with my most enemy in some lonesome craggy place, it would fail me, and I thrusting for it to scatter any share of poison in his body or to sink my teeth in his skin. I wouldn't wonder I to have hung for some of you, and that plan not to have come into my head. He went very near to tear us all asunder. I declare I amn't 