re a good housekeeper and will mind well anything he might think fit to give. Glory be to God! Ah, it is not to dispraise you they put it on you, but to show you out so wealthy and so rich. It was herself thought to be serviceable to you, setting out the fuel that was full of dampness where it would get an air of the fire. She but thought it would be more answerable to you being dry. Herself that brought them out from the sieve, thinking to make ready your meal. Thinking to be comfortable to you she was, the way you would make us welcome from this out. She would not be wishful you to do that the time your mind would be vexed. It is all dusky within. It fails me to see any shining thing. I thought it was to lay him out with candles we were brought here. I declare I came nearer furnishing out a corpse myself with the start I got. Who would it be but Simon Niland, that is come following after us. It would be as well for ourselves maybe he not to be too great with Darmer. I wonder what way did that lad make his way into this place. Wait now till I'll waken and question him. Rouse yourself up now. We are, and another along with us. Ah, there's no danger of him coming around Darmer. He is simple and has queer talk too. Has he the frown on him yet? He should be in terrible rages so. There was no dread on you yesterday, and he cursing and roaring the way he was. It is what herself is saying, you to be quitting the world as it seems, it is as good for you make over to her your crock of gold. He surely got some vision or some warning, or there lit on him a fit or a stroke. It would be a bad thing he to meet with his death unknown to us. I don't know. That would be the worst of all. We to be forced to hire an attorney against them, till we would break one another at law. It would be right for us keep some sort of a watch on it. What way now will we bring away the crock? Do it you. I am not of his own kindred and his family. Any person to get a sketch of me bringing it away the