 I'm not being horrid, Mrs. Juno. I'm not going to be horrid. I love you: that's all. I'm extraordinarily happy. I'll be whatever you wish me to be. I tell you I love you. I love loving you. I don't want to be tired and sorry, as I should be if I were to be horrid. I don't want you to be tired and sorry. Do come and sit down again. Quite sure. I only want you 
 Don't be alarmed. I like wanting you. As long as I have a want, I have a reason for living. Satisfaction is death. Not with you. Oh, it sounds uncomplimentary; but it isn't really. Do you know why half the couples who find themselves situated as we are now behave horridly? Not a bit of it. It's because they have nothing else to do, and no other way of entertaining each other. You don't know what it is to be alone with a woman who has little beauty and less conversation. What is a man to do? She can't talk interestingly; and if he talks that way himself she doesn't understand him. He can't look at her: if he does, he only finds out that she isn't beautiful. Before the end of five minutes they are both hideously bored. There's only one thing that can save the situation; and that's what you call being horrid. With a beautiful, witty, kind woman, there's no time for such follies. It's so delightful to look at her, to listen to her voice, to hear all she has to say, that nothing else happens. That is why the woman who is supposed to have a thousand lovers seldom has one; whilst the stupid, graceless animals of women have dozens. One never does quite want to stave it off. Danger is delicious. But death isn't. We court the danger; but the real delight is in escaping, after all. But surely you can do as you please without injuring anyone, Mrs. Juno. That is the whole secret of your extraordinary charm for me. Well, I hardly know how to begin to explain. But the root of the matter is that I am what people call a good man. But you knew I loved you all along. Not at all. You see, it's a great many years since I've been able to allow myself to fall in love. I know lots of charming women; but the worst of it is, they're all married. Women don't become charming, to my taste, until they're fully developed; and by that time, if they're really nice, they're snapped up and married. And then, because I am a good man, I have to place a limit to my regard for them. I may be fortunate enough to gain friendship and even very warm affection from them; but my loyalty to their husbands and their hearths and their happiness obliges me to draw a line and not overstep it. Of course I value such affectionate regard very highly indeed. I am surrounded with women who are most dear to me. But every one of them has a post sticking up, if I may put it that way, with the inscription Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted. How we all loathe that notice! In every lovely garden, in every dell full of primroses, on every fair hillside, we meet that confounded board; and there is always a gamekeeper round the corner. But what is that to the horror of meeting it on every beautiful woman, and knowing that there is a husband round the corner? I have had this accursed board standing between me and every dear and desirable woman until I thought I had lost the power of letting myself fall really and wholeheartedly in love. No. Widows are extraordinarily scarce in modern society. Husbands live longer than they used to; and even when they do die, their widows have a string of names down for their next. Oh, who cares for young girls? They're sympathetic. They're beginners. They don't attract me. I'm afraid of them. Surely that's quite clear. I -- 
 Your poor father! I thought he was alive. You said your POOR father. 
 But--I--is?-- wa--? Oh, Lord! Nothing. No. It was something about your late husband -- 
 Don't tell me he's alive. The first day we met--on the boat--you spoke to me of your poor dear husband. Well, afterwards you called him poor Tops. Always poor Tops, Our poor dear Tops. What could I think? 
 And you mean to tell me you're not a widow! Then I have been behaving like a blackguard. I have broken my promise to my mother. I shall never have an easy conscience again. You thought I was a libertine? 
 I thought the burden of being good had fallen from my soul at last. I saw nothing there but a bosom to rest on: the bosom of a lovely woman of whom I could dream without guilt. What do I see now? 
 No, no. Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted: Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted. I'm not afraid of your husband. I'm afraid of my conscience. 
 Yes, Yes: I know all about that. It's not romantic: it's not Don Juan: it's not advanced; but we feel it all the same. It's far deeper in our blood and bones than all the romantic stuff. My father got into a scandal once: that was why my mother made me promise never to make love to a married woman. And now I've done it I can't feel honest. Don't pretend to despise me or laugh at me. You feel it too. You said just now that your own conscience was uneasy when you thought of your husband. What must it be when you think of my wife? I never led you to believe I was unmarried. I did indeed. I discussed things with you that only married people really understand. I thought it the most delicate way of letting you know. 
 I OUGHT to go. Yes. Er--
 I--I somehow can't. 
 My conscience is active: my will is paralyzed. This is really dreadful. Would you mind ringing the bell and asking them to throw me out? You ought to, you know. Yes; but I can't go. 
 Can you really? For heaven's sake pull yourself together. It's a question of self-control. This is a ghastly business. I want to go away; and I can't. I implore you to run away. I believe I can trust myself to let you go for your own sake. But it will break my heart. I ought to draw a line. 
 No! 
 Oh, don't. Oh, no, no: nothing half so bad, so vulgar, so wrong. I assure you I only meant to be agreeable. It grew on me before I noticed it. I let it grow because the board was not up. Sibthorpe! 
 It sounded like something to drink. But I have no right to laugh at him. My Christian name is Gregory, which sounds like a powder. Forget you! Oh, if I only could! 
 No: I'd die first. Oh, I hate myself. 
 No. I'm not reckless. I know what I'm doing: my conscience is awake. Oh, where is the intoxication of love? the delirium? the madness that makes a man think the world well lost for the woman he adores? I don't think anything of the sort: I see that it's not worth it: I know that it's wrong: I have never in my life been cooler, more businesslike. I must. I ought 
 Oh, my darling, my treasure, we shall be sorry for this. I protest to the last. I'm against this. I have been pushed over a precipice. I'm innocent. This wild joy, this exquisite tenderness, this ascent into heaven can thrill me to the uttermost fibre of my heart 
; but it can't subdue my mind or corrupt my conscience, which still shouts to the skies that I'm not a willing party to this outrageous conduct. I repudiate the bliss with which you are filling me. No, I recall you to your duty. But oh, I will give you my life with both hands if you can tell me that you feel for me one millionth part of what I feel for you now. I can't. I have no will. Something stronger than either of us is in command here. Nothing on earth or in heaven can part us now. You know that, don't you? That did it. Impossible: it's only our guilty fancy. A WOMAN'S Great Heaven! we're both mad. That's my wife's voice. 
 Will you have the goodness, sir, in addressing this lady, to keep your temper and refrain from using profane language? This is ridiculous. What the devil business is it of yours what passes between my wife and myself? You're not her husband, are you? You just wait, my pet. I'll settle this chap for you. 
 You call me a disappointment, do you? Well, I suppose every husband's a disappointment. What about yourself? Don't try to look like an unmarried man. I happen to know the lady you disappointed. I travelled in the same ship with her; and -- 
 Who told you that? And do you fall in love with everybody's wife? 
 How dare you, sir, asperse the character of that sweet lady? a lady whom I have taken under my protection. I call this cheek. Who is making love to his own wife before people now, pray? What about your own conduct, pray? Well, upon my soul! What difference does your not defending it make? Don't you dare call my wife a monster. Well, then, let him not brag about sinning with my wife. 
 What pretension has he to any such honor? Oh! Indeed! Oh, all right. If you come to that--
 Pardon me. I'm not guilty. No. I should rather describe myself guilty in fact, but not in intention. Yes: I maintain that I am responsible for my intentions only, and not for reflex actions over which I have no control. 
 I promised my mother that I would never tell a lie, and that I would never make love to a married woman. I never have told a lie -- I say never. On many occasions I have resorted to prevarication; but on great occasions I have always told the truth. I regard this as a great occasion; and I won't be intimidated into breaking my promise. I solemnly declare that I did not know until this evening that Mrs. Juno was married. She will bear me out when I say that from that moment my intentions were strictly and resolutely honorable; though my conduct, which I could not control and am therefore not responsible for, was disgraceful--or would have been had this gentleman not walked in and begun making love to my wife under my very nose. When you say darling, may I ask which of us you are addressing? 
 So she is, in a sort of a way. 
 Sorry? Seraphita: I promised my mother -- A promise is a promise. I can't tell a deliberate lie. I know I ought to be sorry; but the flat fact is that I'm not sorry. I find that in this business, somehow or other, there is a disastrous separation between my moral principles and my conduct. Bosh! It doesn't matter about your principles if your conduct is all right. What's the good of your principles being right if they won't work? Oh yes: if, if, if. You know jolly well that self-sacrifice doesn't work either when you really want a thing. How much have you sacrificed yourself, pray? And Mrs. Juno's a very nice woman. She oughtn't to be; but she is. I mean she oughtn't to be nice to me. And you oughtn't to be nice to my wife. And your wife oughtn't to like me. And my wife oughtn't to like you. And if they do, they oughtn't to go on liking us. And I oughtn't to like your wife; and you oughtn't to like mine; and if we do we oughtn't to go on liking them. But we do, all of us. We oughtn't; but we do. How? { } What's the good of keeping on at that? I think we had better let bygones be bygones. 
 You will forgive me, won't you? Why should you let a moment's forgetfulness embitter all our future life? Oh, dash it, I forgot. This is getting ridiculous. Seraphita: you cut me to the soul 
 Can you explain the distinction? I won't fight. If you beat me my wife would share my humiliation. If I beat you, she would sympathize with you and loathe me for my brutality. Besides, neither of us could beat the other, as we neither of us know how to fight. We should only blacken each other's eyes and make fools of ourselves. You're an Englishman. Can you use yours? Do you want me to be thrown into the harbor? 
 We're all making fools of ourselves. Does my speaking to your wife do you any harm? 
 I shall talk to your wife as often as she'll let me. What steps? Mrs. Juno: I'm very sorry I let you in for all this. I don't know how it is that we contrive to make feelings like ours, which seems to me to be beautiful and sacred feelings, and which lead to such interesting and exciting adventures, end in vulgar squabbles and degrading scenes. I promised -- I was about to say so myself. Let me add that if you do things merely because you think some other fool expects you to do them, and he expects you to do them because he thinks you expect him to expect you to do them, it will end in everybody doing what nobody wants to do, which is in my opinion a silly state of things. Juno: I love yours. What then? But surely I ought to take in our guest, and not my own wife. Oh, of course: I beg your pardon. I'm hopelessly confused. 
 I am. I simply adore you. 
 I have said to Mrs. Juno that I simply adore her. 
 
