 You will really be good? 
 You're sure you don't want anything you oughtn't to? Yes; but the impulse to commit suicide is sometimes irresistible. What! Because they can't help it if they let things go too far. I wonder! It's quite true that when one feels in danger one talks like mad to stave it off, even when one doesn't quite want to stave it off. I don't think we'll talk about it any more. Danger is all very well when you do escape; but sometimes one doesn't. I tell you frankly I don't feel as safe as you do--if you really do. I don't understand. I thought so until you began making love to me. Yes, of course; but I depended on you not to tell me so; because I thought you were good. Your blurting it out spoilt it. And it was wicked besides. Wasn't there a widow? Well, what about the young girls? That's the correct thing to say to a woman of my age. But it doesn't explain why you seem to have put your scruples in your pocket when you met me. No: please don't explain. I don't want to know. I take your word for it. Besides, it doesn't matter now. Our voyage is over; and to-morrow I start for the north to my poor father's place. So he is. What made you think he wasn't? Oh, that's a trick of mine. Rather a silly trick, I Suppose; but there's something pathetic to me about men: I find myself calling them poor So-and-So when there's nothing whatever the matter with them. What's the matter? Nothing! 
 Nonsense: you're ill. My LATE husband! What do you mean? 
 Don't tell me he's dead. Oh, don't frighten me like this. Of course he's alive--unless you've heard anything. 
 Is that all? 
 I wish you hadn't given me such a shock about him; for I haven't been treating him at all well. Neither have you. Gracious, no! I'm not in black. I'm sorry. I thought you knew. No: of course I shouldn't have spoken to you if I had thought that. I thought you liked me, but that you knew, and would be good. Just what you saw before. What else? They won't if they hold their tongues. Don't be such a coward. My husband won't eat you. 
 Well! I don't consider myself at all a badly behaved woman; for nothing has passed between us that was not perfectly nice and friendly; but really! to hear a grown-up man talking about promises to his mother! . 
 Your wife!!! You don't dare sit there and tell me coolly that you're a married man! Oh! You never gave me the faintest hint that you had a wife. Oh!! Well, you ARE a daisy, I must say. I suppose that's vulgar; but really! really!! You and your goodness! However, now we've found one another out there's only one thing to be done. Will you please go? Well, go. What! make a scandal in the face of the whole hotel! Certainly not. Don't be a fool. Then I can. Goodbye. Of course I--
 Oh, dear! 
 I can't. 
 
 No: it's a question of distance. Self-control is all very well two or three yards off, or on a ship, with everybody looking on. Don't come any nearer. I think you ought to go 
 but if you try I shall grab you round the neck and disgrace myself. I implore you to sit still and be nice. I don't want to break your heart. I can't bear to think of your sitting here alone. I can't bear to think of sitting alone myself somewhere else. It's so senseless--so ridiculous--when we might be so happy. I don't want to be wicked, or coarse. But I like you very much; and I do want to be affectionate and human. So you shall, dear. Tell me: do you really like me? I don't mean LOVE me: you might love the housemaid -- Oh, yes you might; and what does that matter, anyhow? Are you really fond of me? Are we friends--comrades? Would you be sorry if I died? Or was it the usual aimless man's lark: a mere shipboard flirtation? And you were glad to let it grow? Bother the board! I am just as fond of Sibthorpe as -- Sibthorpe is my husband's Christian name. I oughtn't to call him Tops to you now. 
 That is so like a man! I offer you my heart's warmest friendliest feeling; and you think of nothing but a silly joke. A quip like that makes you forget me. If you could, would you? I glory in myself. It's so jolly to be reckless. CAN a man be reckless, I wonder. 
 But you can't resist me. We can forgive ourselves. Could we forgive ourselves if we let this moment slip? Never mind your conscience. Tell me how happy you are. Oh, yes, yes. Be satisfied with that. Ask for no more. Let me go. Oh, don't make me say it. Of course I know. Nothing--not life nor death nor shame nor anything can part us. A MATTER-OF-FACT MALE VOICE IN CORRIDOR. All right. This must be it. The two recover with a violent start; release one another; and spring back to opposite sides of the lounge. 
 Sh--sh--sh! That was my husband's voice. Ridiculous! Oh! we're dreaming it all. We 
 
 Ah: here we are. 
 Sit down: I'm sure you're tired. 
 That's right. 
 Hullo! 
 this sofa's quite warm. I felt it quite distinctly: I'm more thinly clad than you. 
 What a relief to get off the ship and have a private room! That's the worst of a ship. You're under observation all the time. Well, of course there's no reason: at least I suppose not. But, you know, part of the romance of a journey is that a man keeps imagining that something might happen; and he can't do that if there are a lot of people about and it simply can't happen. No: believe me, that's a foreigner's mistake: we are the most romantic people in the world, we English. Why, my very presence here is a romance. Yes. You've guessed, of course, that I'm a married man. Thank Heaven for that! To my English mind, passion is not real passion without guilt. I am a red-blooded man, Mrs. Lunn: I can't help it. The tragedy of my life is that I married, when quite young, a woman whom I couldn't help being very fond of. I longed for a guilty passion--for the real thing--the wicked thing; and yet I couldn't care twopence for any other woman when my wife was about. Year after year went by: I felt my youth slipping away without ever having had a romance in my life; for marriage is all very well; but it isn't romance. There's nothing wrong in it, you see. No: that was what was so tame about it. I wanted to suffer. You get so sick of being happily married. It's always the happy marriages that break up. At last my wife and I agreed that we ought to take a holiday. Oh, the seaside and so on! That's not what we meant. We meant a holiday from one another. She said it was an excellent idea; that domestic felicity was making us perfectly idiotic; that she wanted a holiday, too. So we agreed to go round the world in opposite directions. I started for Suez on the day she sailed for New York. Could anything be more romantic than that? Would anyone else than an Englishman have thought of it? I daresay my temperament seems tame to your boiling southern blood -- Your southern blood. Don't you remember how you told me, that night in the saloon when I sang "Farewell and adieu to you dear Spanish ladies," that you were by birth a lady of Spain? Your splendid Andalusian beauty speaks for itself. 
 It is climate and not race that determines the temperament. The fiery sun of Spain blazed on your cradle; and it rocked to the roar of British cannon. Yes; and with the same woman. I don't think you quite understand. I meant that I am in love with you. And is your husband as insensible as yourself? But you? Are you really as insensible as you say you are? 
 Noticed it! Oh, Mrs. Lunn! Have I been able to notice anything else since we met? Is there then no hope for me? Is the list a long one? Oh, will you really put me on that? Say you will. May I call you by your Christian name? 
 Seraphita! I can't change the subject. For me there is no other subject. Why else have you put me on your list? 
 Is that all? Oh, I can't believe that the voice of love has ever thoroughly awakened you. 
 You think it goes on respectably; but I can tell you as a solicitor -- 
 Look here, Mrs. Lunn: do you think a man's heart is a potato? or a turnip? or a ball of knitting wool? that you can throw it away like this? I have never been treated like this in my life. Here am I, a married man, with a most attractive wife: a wife I adore, and who adores me, and has never as much as looked at any other man since we were married. I come and throw all this at your feet. I! I, a solicitor! braving the risk of your husband putting me into the divorce court and making me a beggar and an outcast! I do this for your sake. And you go on as if I were making no sacrifice: as if I had told you it's a fine evening, or asked you to have a cup of tea. It's not human. It's not right. Love has its rights as well as respectability 
 
 What good's this? Yes I do. Or at least I did. But I'm an Englishman; and I think you ought to respect the conventions of English life. Pardon me. I may be doing wrong; but I'm doing it in a proper and customary manner. You may be doing right; but you're doing it in an unusual and questionable manner. I am not prepared to put up with that. I can stand being badly treated: I'm no baby, and can take care of myself with anybody. And of course I can stand being well treated. But the thing I can't stand is being unexpectedly treated, It's outside my scheme of life. So come now! you've got to behave naturally and straightforwardly with me. You can leave husband and child, home, friends, and country, for my sake, and come with me to some southern isle--or say South America--where we can be all in all to one another. Or you can tell your husband and let him jolly well punch my head if he can. But I'm damned if I'm going to stand any eccentricity. It's not respectable. 
 You make love to another man to my face! That takes away the last rag of excuse for such conduct. A nice world it would be if married people were to carry on their endearments before everybody! Not at present; but I'm on the list. I'm her prospective husband: you're only her actual one. I'm the anticipation: you're the disappointment. And you fell in love with her. Aha! you confess it. Well, if you want to know, nobody told me. Everybody falls in love with my wife. Certainly not. Only with yours. Not at all. You can get a divorce. For his misconduct with my wife. Protection! 
 Really you must be more careful what you say about me, Mr. Lunn. My precious! 
 Pardon this betrayal of my feeling; but I've not seen my wife for several weeks; and she is very dear to me. How do you do? 
 
 This is no way to take your husband's unfaithfulness. 
 You ought to teach your wife better. Where's her feelings? It's scandalous. I don't defend it; and there's an end of the matter. A fundamental difference. To serious people I may appear wicked. I don't defend myself: I am wicked, though not bad at heart. To thoughtless people I may even appear comic. Well, laugh at me: I have given myself away. But Mrs. Lunn seems to have no opinion at all about me. She doesn't seem to know whether I'm wicked or comic. She doesn't seem to care. She has no more sense. I say it's not right. I repeat, I have sinned; and I'm prepared to suffer. Have you really sinned, Tops? 
 Trifles! I have fallen in love with a monster. 
 Please don't lose your temper, Mr. Lunn: I won't have my Tops bullied. I sinned in intention. 
 I'm as guilty as if I had actually sinned. And I insist on being treated as a sinner, and not walked over as if I'd done nothing, by your wife or any other man. 
 I won't be belittled. This insane magnanimity -- I don't think any good can come of a conversation between Mr. Lunn and myself. We can hardly be expected to improve one another's morals. 
 Now we are both equally guilty. In intention. Don't quibble. You were guilty in intention, as I was. { rising and } What! { exclaiming } No, really -- 
 Well, I like this! Why don't you let my wife say something? I don't think she ought to be thrust into the background like this. 
 I don't know what to say. I must think over it. I have always been rather severe on this sort of thing; but when it came to the point I didn't behave as I thought I should behave. I didn't intend to be wicked; but somehow or other, Nature, or whatever you choose to call it, didn't take much notice of my intentions. 
 And I really did think, Tops, that I was the only woman in the world for you. 
 Oh, that's all right, my precious. Mrs. Lunn thought she was the only woman in the world for him. 
 And so is my wife. Don't you set up to be a better husband than I am; for you're not. I've owned I'm wrong. You haven't. 
 Oh, bother your mother! 
 I beg your pardon. There's nothing disastrous about it. It doesn't matter about your principles if your conduct is all right. But your conduct isn't all right; and my principles are. They WILL work, sir, if you exercise self-sacrifice. Why oughtn't she to be a nice woman, pray? But, my dear boy, if we admit we are in the wrong where's the harm of it? We're not perfect; but as long as we keep the ideal before us -- By admitting we were wrong. I call this polyandry. 
 I tell you I have admitted -- { together } Oh, not that again, please. Oh, well, if you won't listen to me--! 
 What is the position now exactly? 
 I mean, what are we going to do? I should advise you to divorce your husband. No: I forgot that. Excuse me; but for the moment I thought I was married to you. But it's Mrs. Lunn who has to forgive you. Do you really mind, Mrs. Lunn? Am I to take Sibthorpe off your hands too, Mrs. Lunn? 
 Do you suppose I'll allow this? You've admitted that you've done wrong, Tops. What's the use of your allowing or not allowing after that? I do not admit that I have done wrong. I admit that what I did was wrong. It's quite plain to anyone but an imbecile. If you tell me I've done something wrong you insult me. But if you say that something that I did is wrong you simply raise a question of morals. I tell you flatly if you say I did anything wrong you will have to fight me. In fact I think we ought to fight anyhow. I don't particularly want to; but I feel that England expects us to. I don't admit that. Every Englishman can use his fists. I presume so: I never tried. You never told me you couldn't fight, Tops. I thought you were an accomplished boxer. My precious: I never gave you any ground for such a belief. You always talked as if it were a matter of course. You spoke with the greatest contempt of men who didn't kick other men downstairs. Well, I can't kick Mr. Lunn downstairs. We're on the ground floor. You could throw him into the harbor. No: I only want to show Tops that he's making a ghastly fool of himself. 
 Well, if we're not to fight, I must insist at least on your never speaking to my wife again. No. But it's the proper course to take. 
 We MUST behave with some sort of decency. I'm prepared to promise never to do so. I think your husband has a right to demand that. Then if I speak to you after, it will not be his fault. It will be a breach of my promise; and I shall not attempt to defend my conduct. I have no objection to your speaking to me, Mr. Lunn. Then I shall take steps. Steps. Measures. Proceedings. What steps as may seem advisable. No. I decline to admit that my conduct has been vulgar or degrading. Look here, old chap: I don't say a word against your mother; and I'm sorry she's dead; but really, you know, most women are mothers; and they all die some time or other; yet that doesn't make them infallible authorities on morals, does it? Lunn: I love your wife; and that's all about it. Clearly she must never see you again. Why not? Why not! My love: I'm surprised at you. Am I to speak only to men who dislike me? Yes: I think that is, properly speaking, a married woman's duty. Then I won't do it: that's flat. I like to be liked. I like to be loved. I want everyone round me to love me. I don't want to meet or speak to anyone who doesn't like me. But, my precious, this is the most horrible immorality. I hope we shall meet very often. But I hope also we shall not defend our conduct. 
 This is unendurable. We've all been flirting. Need we go on footling about it? 
 I don't know what you call footling -- 
 You do. You're footling. Mr. Lunn is footling. Can't we admit that we're human and have done with it? I have admitted it all along. I -- 
 Then stop footling. The dinner gong sounds. You seem quite afraid of me 
 
 You have called me Sibthorpe! Thank you. I think Lunn's conduct fully justifies me in allowing you to do it. Seraphita: I worship you beyond expression. 
