
 Is it? I don't notice it. I expect the sun's been on it. But why not? Mr. Juno: romance is all very well on board ship; but when your foot touches the soil of England there's an end of it. 
 Indeed? Oh, that's all right. I'm a married woman. Poor man! How you must have suffered! Hadn't you holidays every year? How very odd! 
 That's precisely what Gregory and I did. Now I wonder did he want a holiday from me! What he said was that he wanted the delight of meeting me after a long absence. My what! Stuff! I was born in Gibraltar. My father was Captain Jenkins. In the artillery. What eloquence! It reminds me of my husband when he was in love before we were married. Are you in love? Well, of course, I didn't suppose you were in love with two women. 
 Oh, that! Men do fall in love with me. They all seem to think me a creature with volcanic passions: I'm sure I don't know why; for all the volcanic women I know are plain little creatures with sandy hair. I don't consider human volcanoes respectable. And I'm so tired of the subject! Our house is always full of women who are in love with my husband and men who are in love with me. We encourage it because it's pleasant to have company. Oh, Gregory's not insensible: very far from it; but I am the only woman in the world for him. I never said anything of the kind. I'm not at all insensible by nature; but (I don't know whether you've noticed it) I am what people call rather a fine figure of a woman. There you go, like all the rest of them! I ask you, how do you expect a woman to keep up what you call her sensibility when this sort of thing has happened to her about three times a week ever since she was seventeen? It used to upset me and terrify me at first. Then I got rather a taste for it. It came to a climax with Gregory: that was why I married him. Then it became a mild lark, hardly worth the trouble. After that I found it valuable once or twice as a spinal tonic when I was run down; but now it's an unmitigated bore. I don't mind your declaration: I daresay it gives you a certain pleasure to make it. I quite understand that you adore me; but (if you don't mind) I'd rather you didn't keep on saying so. Oh, yes. Gregory has an idea that married women keep lists of the men they'll marry if they become widows. I'll put your name down, if that will satisfy you. Do you mean the real list? Not the one I show to Gregory: there are hundreds of names on that; but the little private list that he'd better not see? Well, perhaps I will. 
 Now don't begin abusing the privilege. No: it's too long. You can't go about calling a woman Seraphita. I used to be called Sally at home; but when I married a man named Lunn, of course that became ridiculous. That's my one little pet joke. Call me Mrs. Lunn for short. And change the subject, or I shall go to sleep. Because you're a solicitor. Gregory's a solicitor. I'm accustomed to my husband being a solicitor and telling me things he oughtn't to tell anybody. No: it sends me to sleep. 
 It's no use, Mr. Juno: I'm hopelessly respectable: the Jenkinses always were. Don't you realize that unless most women were like that, the world couldn't go on as it does? Stuff! of course all the disreputable people who get into trouble go to you, just as all the sick people go to the doctors; but most people never go to a solicitor. I don't throw away balls of knitting wool. A man's heart seems to me much like a sponge: it sops up dirty water as well as clean. Nonsense! Here, here's a flower 
 Go and dream over it until you feel hungry. Nothing brings people to their senses like hunger. 
 Oh! you don't love me a bit. But I am respecting them; and you're not. 
 Gregory! Darling 
! Why, he's my husband. Oh, my Gregory is not a disappointment. 
 Are you, dear? But what's the good of saying that, Mr. Juno? I'm married to him; and there's an end of it. What for? Won't you introduce me to your wife, Mr. Juno? I'm so glad to find you do credit to Gregory's taste. I'm naturally rather particular about the women he falls in love with. 
 I don't remember your sinning. I have a shocking bad memory for trifles; but I think I should remember that--if you mean me. Tush! 
 
 I hope you'll come and stay with us now that you and Gregory are such friends, Mrs. Juno. Don't you think you've said enough, Mr. Juno? This is a matter for two women to settle. Won't you take a stroll on the beach with my Gregory while we talk it over. Gregory is a splendid listener. { simultaneously } Gregory! 
 Gregory! 
 Really, darling, there's no use in the pot calling the kettle black. I really don't know. I'm getting hopelessly confused. I'm sorry, I'm sure. Please excuse me, dear. Are you sorry, Gregory? Yes, sorry. I think it's time for you to say you're sorry, and to make friends with Mr. Juno before we all dine together. Oh, a great deal, Gregory. Don't be rude. Mr. Juno is a very nice man: he has been most attentive to me on the voyage. 
 Well, really, I must have my dinner. These two men, with their morality, and their promises to their mothers, and their admissions that they were wrong, and their sinning and suffering, and their going on at one another as if it meant anything, or as if it mattered, are getting on my nerves. 
 If you will be so very good, my dear, as to take my sentimental husband off my hands occasionally, I shall be more than obliged to you: I'm sure you can stand more male sentimentality than I can. 
 I, on my part, will do my best to amuse your excellent husband when you find him tiresome. I wish you wouldn't call innocent things by offensive names, Mr. Juno. What do you call your own conduct? { } Tops: I'll scream if you say that again. What would you advise, Mr. Juno? Do you want me to drag your wife into court and disgrace her? I'm getting hungry. My dear Mrs. Juno, Gregory is one of those terribly uxorious men who ought to have ten wives. If any really nice woman will take him off my hands for a day or two occasionally, I shall be greatly obliged to her. Serve you right! You'd think it quite proper if it cut me to the soul. Not to mention that as we are human beings and not reindeer or barndoor fowl, if two men presumed to fight for us we couldn't decently ever speak to either of them again. And are you never going to speak to me again, Mr. Juno? 
 Can your husband afford a scandal, Mrs. Juno? Neither can mine. I don't intend to give up meeting you, Mr. Juno. You amuse me very much. I don't like being loved: it bores me. But I do like to be amused. 
 Thank heaven! Let's go in to dinner. Gregory: take in Mrs. Juno. Well, Mrs. Juno is not your wife, is she? 
 Yes, dear. She's a darling. 
 Now, Sibthorpe. Yes: I think you may let yourself go now. 
