 I say; what's the matter? You were crying when I spoke to you. 
 [Looking at her] Cheer up! 
 [Limping to the window--doubtfully] I say, how did you how did you get into this? Isn't it an awfully hopeless sort of life? 
 Just out of hospital to-day. 
 [Leaning against the window-sill, looking at her attentively] I say, what nationality are you? 
 Really! I never met a Russian girl. [The 
 Well, you hardly know them at their best, do you? You should see them in the trenches. By George! They're simply splendid--officers and men, every blessed soul. There's never been anything like it--just one long bit of jolly fine self-sacrifice; it's perfectly amazing. 
 Oh, not a bit; you're quite out! I assure you when we made the attack where I got wounded there wasn't a single man in my regiment who wasn't an absolute hero. The way they went in--never thinking of themselves--it was simply ripping. 
 Oh, yes! I know that. 
 Oh! they're not mean really--they simply don't understand. 
 [Abruptly] About being lonely? Haven't you any Russian friends? 
 Yes. 
 I suppose all Russians do. 
 What! Are you as badly on the rocks as that? 
 I say, what's your name? 
 [With a laugh] You're a distrustful little soul; aren't you? 
 Yes. I suppose you're bound to think us all brutes. 
 We never know, unless it happens to be hand to hand; I haven't come in for that yet. 
 Oh, glad? I don't think so. We're all in the same boat, so far as that's concerned. We're not glad to kill each other--not most of us. We do our job--that's all. 
 Don't you get any news ever? 
 Yes, I have been--in the trenches. But one's ashamed with all the others. 
 [Leaning forward and patting her knee] Sorry--sorry. 
 [Staring] My dear girl, who cares.  We aren't fighting against women. 
 [Smiling] You are a dreadful little cynic! But of course you are! 
 I know lots. 
 I suppose not a real hole. 
 [Muttering] I'm sure there are people. 
 Don't. I'd rather not, if you don't mind. [She looks at him fixedly, with a curious inquiring stare] It's stupid. I don't know--but you see, out there, and in hospital, life's different. It's--it's--it isn't mean, you know. Don't come too close. 
 [Turning sharply] Hate? I don't know. 
 Oh, go on! Talk away; I'm not obliged to believe you, and I don't. [She, too, is on her feet now, leaning against the wall; her  dark dress and white face just touched by the slanting  moonlight. Her voice comes again, slow and soft and bitter.] 
 No! There's more than that. 
 We must fight till we win. 
 Good-night. 
 Yes, I like you. 
 No. 
 [With a shrug] If you must know--because you upset me. 
 [Sitting down suddenly] Don't! I don't want to feel a brute. 
 [Sighing] A good many. 
 Yes, I think so. 
 Some were; some were quite glad to be taken. 
 You can't tell how good it is to be alive till you're facing death. You don't live till then. And when a whole lot of you feel like that--and are ready to give their lives for each other, it's worth all the rest of life put together. [He stops, ashamed of such, sentiment before this girl, who  believes in nothing.] 
 Attacking across open ground: four machine bullets got me at one go off. 
 It was great. We did laugh that morning. They got me much too soon, though--a swindle. 
 Yes. And what do you think was the first thing I was conscious of next morning? My old Colonel bending over me and giving me a squeeze of lemon. If you knew my Colonel you'd still believe in things. There is something, you know, behind all this evil. After all, you can only die once, and, if it's for your country--all the better! [Her face, in the moonlight, with, intent eyes touched up with  black, has a most strange, other-world look.] 
 Yes; you think so, but it isn't, you know, or you wouldn't have 'been crying when I met you. 
 All the same; just now you were pitying your folk at home, and prisoners and that. 
 Nor your heart either, for all you say. 
 [With an outburst] No; we don't only love ourselves; there is more. I can't explain, but there's something great; there's kindness--and--and -- [The shouting of newspaper boys grows louder and their cries,  passionately vehement, clash into each other and obscure each  word. His head goes up to listen; her hand tightens within his  arm--she too is listening. The cries come nearer, hoarser, more  shrill and clamorous; the empty moonlight outside seems suddenly  crowded with figures, footsteps, voices, and a fierce distant  cheering. "Great victory--great victory! Official! British!  'Eavy defeat of the 'Uns! Many thousand prisoners! 'Eavy  defeat!" It speeds by, intoxicating, filling him with a fearful  joy; he leans far out, waving his cap and cheering like a  madman; the night seems to flutter and vibrate and answer. He  turns to rush down into the street, strikes against something  soft, and recoils. The 
