 I say; what's the matter? You were crying when I spoke to you. 
 Cheer up! 
 I say, how did you how did you get into this? Isn't it an awfully hopeless sort of life? Just out of hospital to-day. 
 I say, what nationality are you? Really! I never met a Russian girl. 
 About being lonely? Haven't you any Russian friends? Yes. I suppose all Russians do. What! Are you as badly on the rocks as that? I say, what's your name? 
 You're a distrustful little soul; aren't you? Yes. I suppose you're bound to think us all brutes. We never know, unless it happens to be hand to hand; I haven't come in for that yet. Oh, glad? I don't think so. We're all in the same boat, so far as that's concerned. We're not glad to kill each other--not most of us. We do our job--that's all. Don't you get any news ever? Yes, I have been--in the trenches. But one's ashamed with all the others. 
 Sorry--sorry. 
 My dear girl, who cares. We aren't fighting against women. 
 You are a dreadful little cynic! But of course you are! I know lots. I suppose not a real hole. 
 I'm sure there are people. Don't. I'd rather not, if you don't mind. 
 It's stupid. I don't know--but you see, out there, and in hospital, life's different. It's--it's--it isn't mean, you know. Don't come too close. 
 Hate? I don't know. Oh, go on! Talk away; I'm not obliged to believe you, and I don't. 
 No! There's more than that. We must fight till we win. Good-night. Yes, I like you. No. 
 If you must know--because you upset me. 
 Don't! I don't want to feel a brute. 
 A good many. Yes, I think so. Some were; some were quite glad to be taken. You can't tell how good it is to be alive till you're facing death. You don't live till then. And when a whole lot of you feel like that--and are ready to give their lives for each other, it's worth all the rest of life put together. 
 Attacking across open ground: four machine bullets got me at one go off. It was great. We did laugh that morning. They got me much too soon, though--a swindle. Yes. And what do you think was the first thing I was conscious of next morning? My old Colonel bending over me and giving me a squeeze of lemon. If you knew my Colonel you'd still believe in things. There is something, you know, behind all this evil. After all, you can only die once, and, if it's for your country--all the better! 
 Yes; you think so, but it isn't, you know, or you wouldn't have 'been crying when I met you. All the same; just now you were pitying your folk at home, and prisoners and that. Nor your heart either, for all you say. 
 No; we don't only love ourselves; there is more. I can't explain, but there's something great; there's kindness--and--and -- 
